CHAPTER X

Eccentricity of the English--Castelbajac Count Schwerin--Sophie at
School--My Reception at the Betting Club--The Charpillon


I passed a night which seemed like a never-ending nightmare, and I
got up sad and savage, feeling as if I could kill a man on the
smallest provocation. It seemed as if the house, which I had
hitherto thought so beautiful, was like a millstone about my neck.
I went out in my travelling clothes, and walked into a coffee-house,
where I saw a score of people reading the papers.

I sat down, and, not understanding English, passed my time in gazing
at the goers and comers. I had been there some time when my
attention was attracted by the voice of a man speaking as follows in
French:

"Tommy has committed suicide, and he was wise, for he was in such a
state that he could only expect unhappiness for the rest of his
life."

"You are quite mistaken," said the other, with the greatest
composure. "I was one of his creditors myself, and on making an
inventory of his effects I feel satisfied that he has done a very
foolish and a very childish thing; he might have lived on
comfortably, and not killed himself for fully six months."

At any other time this calculation would have made me laugh, and, as
it was, I felt as if the incident had done me good.

I left the coffee-house without having said a word or spent a penny,
and I went towards the Exchange to get some money. Bosanquet gave me
what I wanted directly, and as I walked out with him I noticed a
curious-looking individual, whose name I asked.

"He's worth a hundred thousand," said the banker.

"And who is that other man over there?"

"He's not worth a ten-pound note."

"But I don't want to hear what they are worth; it's their names I
want."

"I really don't know."

"How can you tell how much they are worth, not knowing their names?"

"Names don't go for anything here. What we want to know about a man
is how much he has got? Besides; what's in a name? Ask me for a
thousand pounds and give me a proper receipt, and you can do it under
the name of Socrates or Attila, for all I care. You will pay me back
my money as Socrates or Attila, and not as Seingalt; that is all."

"But how about signing bills of exchange?"

"That's another thing; I must use the name which the drawer gives
me."

"I don't understand that."

"Well, you see, you are not English, nor are you a business man."

On leaving him I walked towards the park, but wishing to change a
twenty-pound note before going in I went to a fat merchant, an
epicure whose acquaintance I had made at the tavern, and put down the
note on his counter, begging him to cash it for me.

"Come again in an hour," said he, "I have no money by me just now."

"Very good; I will call again when I come from the park."

"Take back your note; you shall give it to me when I hand you the
money."

"Never mind; keep it. I don't doubt your honesty."

"Don't be so foolish. If you left me the note I should certainly
decline to hand over the money, if only for the sake of giving you a
lesson."

"I don't believe you are capable of such dishonesty."

"Nor am I, but when it comes to such a simple thing as putting a bank
note in your pocket, the most honest man in the world would never
dream of having such a thing in his possession without having paid
the money for it, and the least slip of memory might lead to a
dispute in which you would infallibly come off second best."

"I feel the force of your arguments, especially in a town where so
much business is carried on."

When I got into the park I met Martinelli and thanked him for sending
me a copy of the Decameron, while he congratulated me on my re-
appearance in society, and on the young lady of whom I had been the
happy possessor and no doubt the slave.

"My Lord Pembroke has seen her," said he, "and thought her charming."

"What? Where could he have seen her?"

"In a carriage with you driving fast along the Rochester road. It is
three or four days ago."

"Then I may tell you that I was taking her to Calais; I shall never
see her face again."

"Will you let the room again in the same way?"

"No, never again, though the god of love has been propitious to me.
I shall be glad to see you at my house whenever you like to come."

"Shall I send you a note to warn you?"

"Not at all."

We walked on talking about literature, manners, and so forth, in an
aimless way. All at once, as we approached Buckingham House, I saw
five or six persons, relieving nature amidst the bushes, with their
hinder parts facing the passers-by. I thought this a disgusting
piece of indecency, and said as much to Martinelli, adding that the
impudent rascals might at least turn their faces towards the path.

"Not at all," he exclaimed, "for then they might be recognized;
whereas in exposing their posteriors they run no such risk; besides
the sight makes squeamish persons turn away."

"You are right, but you will confess that the whole thing strikes a
stranger as very revolting."

"Yes, there is nothing so ineradicable as national prejudice. You
may have noticed that when an Englishman wants to ease his sluices in
the street, he doesn't run up an alley or turn to the wall like we
do."

"Yes, I have noticed them turning towards the middle of the street,
but if they thus escape the notice of the people in the shops and on
the pavement they are seen by everybody who is driving in a carriage,
and that is as bad."

"The people in the carriages need not look."

"That is true"

We walked on to the Green Park, and met Lord Pembroke on horseback.
He stopped and burst into exclamations on seeing me. As I guessed
the cause of his surprise, I hastened to tell him that I was a free
man once more, to my sorrow, and felt lonely amidst my splendour.

"I feel rather curious about it, and perhaps I may come and keep you
company to-day."

We parted, and reckoning on seeing him at dinner I, went back to tell
my cook that dinner was to be served in the large room. Martinelli
had an engagement and could not come to dinner, but he led me out of
the park by a door with which I was not acquainted, and sent me on my
way.

As we were going along we saw a crowd of people who seemed to be
staring at something. Martinelli went up to the crowd, and then
returned to me, saying,--

"That's a curious sight for you; you can enter it amidst your remarks
on English manners."

"What is it?"

"A man at the point of death from a blow he has received in boxing
with another sturdy fellow."

"Cannot anything be done?"

"There is a surgeon there who would bleed him, if he were allowed."

"Who could prevent him?"

"That's the curious part of it. Two men have betted on his death or
recovery. One says, 'I'll bet twenty guineas he dies,' and the other
says, 'Done.' Number one will not allow the surgeon to bleed him,
for if the man recovered his twenty guineas would be gone."

"Poor man! what pitiless betters!"

"The English are very strange in their betting proclivities; they bet
about everything. There is a Betting Club to which I will introduce
you, if you like."

"Do they speak French there?"

"Most certainly, for it is composed of men of wit and mark."

"What do they do?"

"They talk and argue, and if one man brings forward a proposition
which another denies, and one backs his opinion, the other has to bet
too, on pain of a fine which goes to the common fund."

"Introduce me to this delightful club, by all means; it will make my
fortune, for I shall always take care to be on the right side."

"You had better be careful; they are wary birds."

"But to return to the dying man; what will be done to his
antagonist?"

"His hand will be examined, and if it is found to be just the same as
yours or mine it will be marked, and he will be let go."

"I don't understand that, so kindly explain. How do they recognize a
dangerous hand?"

"If it is found to be marked already, it is a proof that he has
killed his man before and has been marked for it, with the warning,
'Take care not to kill anyone else, for if you do you will be
hanged.'"

"But supposing such a man is attacked?"

"He ought to shew his hand, and then his adversary would let him
alone."

"But if not?"

"Then he is defending himself; and if he kills his man he is
acquitted, provided he can bring witnesses to swear that he was
obliged to fight."

"Since fighting with the fist may cause death, I wonder it is
allowed."

"It is only allowed for a wager. If the combatants do not put one or
more pieces of money on the ground before the fight, and there is a
death, the man is hanged."

"What laws! What manners!"

In such ways I learnt much concerning the manner and customs of this
proud nation, at once so great and so little.

The noble lord came to dinner, and I treated him in a manner to make
him wish to come again. Although there were only the two of us, the
meal lasted a long time, as I was anxious for additional information
on what I had heard in the morning, especially on the Betting Club.
The worthy Pembroke advised me not to have anything to do with it,
unless I made up my mind to keep perfect silence for four or five
weeks.

"But supposing they ask me a question?"

"Evade it."

"Certainly, if I am not in a position to give my opinion; but if I
have an opinion, the powers of Satan could not shut my mouth."

"All the worse for you."

"Are the members knaves?"

"Certainly not. They are noblemen, philosophers, and epicures; but
they are pitiless where a bet is concerned."

"Is the club treasury rich?"

"Far from it; they are all ashamed to pay a fine, and prefer to bet.
Who will introduce you?"

"Martinelli."

"Quite so; through Lord Spencer, who is a member. I would not become
one."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't like argument."

"My taste runs the other way, so I shall try to get in."

"By the way, M. de Seingalt, do you know that you are a very
extraordinary man?"

"For what reason, my lord?"

"You shut yourself up for a whole month with a woman who spent
fourteen months in London without anybody making her acquaintance or
even discovering her nationality. All the amateurs have taken a
lively interest in the affair."

"How did you find out that she spent fourteen months in London?"

"Because several persons saw her in the house of a worthy widow where
she spent the first month. She would never have anything to say to
any advances, but the bill in your window worked wonders."

"Yes, and all the worse for me, for I feel as if I could never love
another woman."

"Oh, that's childish indeed! You will love another woman in a week-
nay, perhaps to-morrow, if you will come and dine with me at my
country house. A perfect French beauty has asked me to dine with
her. I have told some of my friends who are fond of gaming."

"Does the charming Frenchwoman like gaming?"

"No, but her husband does."

"What's his name?"

"He calls himself Count de Castelbajac."

"Ah! Castelbajac?"

"Yes."

"He is a Gascon?"

"Yes."

"Tall, thin, and dark, and marked with the smallpox?

"Exactly! I am delighted to find you know him. You will agree with
me that his wife is very pretty?"

"I really can't say. I knew Castelbajac, as he calls himself, six
years ago, and I never heard he was married. I shall be delighted to
join you, however. I must warn you not to say anything if he seems
not to know me; he may possibly have good reasons for acting in that
manner. Before long I will tell you a story which does not represent
him in a very advantageous manner. I did not know he played. I
shall take care to be on my guard at the Betting Club, and I advise
you, my lord, to be on your guard in the society of Castelbajac."

"I will not forget the warning."

When Pembroke had left me I went to see Madame Cornelis, who had
written a week before to tell me my daughter was ill, and explained
that she had been turned from my doors on two occasions though she
felt certain I was in. To this I replied that I was in love, and so
happy within my own house that I had excluded all strangers, and with
that she had to be contented, but the state in which I found little
Sophie frightened me. She was lying in bed with high fever, she had
grown much thinner, and her eyes seemed to say that she was dying of
grief. Her mother was in despair, for she was passionately fond of
the child, and I thought she would have torn my eyes out when I told
her that if Sophie died she would only have herself to reproach.
Sophie, who was very good-hearted, cried out, "No, no! papa dear;"
and quieted her mother by her caresses.

Nevertheless, I took the mother aside, and told her that the disease
was solely caused by Sophie's dread of her severity.

"In spite of your affection," said I, "you treat her with
insufferable tyranny. Send her to a boardingschool for a couple of
years, and let her associate with girls of good family. Tell her
this evening that she is to go to school, and see if she does not get
better."

"Yes," said she, "but a good boarding-school costs a hundred guineas
a year, including masters."

"If I approve of the school you select I will pay a year in advance."

On my making this offer the woman, who seemed to be living so
luxuriously, but was in reality poverty-stricken, embraced me with
the utmost gratitude.

"Come and tell the news to your daughter now," said she, "I should
like to watch her face when she hears it."

"Certainly."

"My dear Sophie," I said, "your mother agrees with me that if you had
a change of air you would get better, and if you would like to spend
a year or two in a good school I will pay the first year in advance."

"Of course, I will obey my dear mother," said Sophie.

"There is no question of obedience. Would you like to go to school?
Tell me truly."

"But would my mother like me to go?"

"Yes, my child, if it would please you."

"Then, mamma, I should like to go very much."

Her face flushed as she spoke, and I knew that my diagnosis had been
correct. I left her saying I should hope to hear from her soon.

At ten o'clock the next day Jarbe came to ask if I had forgotten my
engagement.

"No," said I, "but it is only ten o'clock."

"Yes, but we have twenty miles to go."

"Twenty miles?"

"Certainly, the house is at St. Albans."

"It's very strange Pembroke never told me; how did you find out the
address?"

"He left it when he went away:"

"Just like an Englishman."

I took a post-chaise, and in three hours I had reached my
destination. The English roads are excellent, and the country offers
a smiling prospect on every side. The vine is lacking, for though
the English soil is fertile it will not bear grapes.

Lord Pembroke's house was not a particularly large one, but twenty
masters and their servants could easily be accommodated in it.

The lady had not yet arrived, so my lord shewed me his gardens, his
fountains, and his magnificent hot-houses; also a cock chained by the
leg, and of a truly ferocious aspect.

"What have we here, my lord?"

"A cock."

"I see it is, but why do you chain it?"
CHAPTER X

Eccentricity of the English--Castelbajac Count Schwerin--Sophie at
School--My Reception at the Betting Club--The Charpillon


I passed a night which seemed like a never-ending nightmare, and I
got up sad and savage, feeling as if I could kill a man on the
smallest provocation. It seemed as if the house, which I had
hitherto thought so beautiful, was like a millstone about my neck.
I went out in my travelling clothes, and walked into a coffee-house,
where I saw a score of people reading the papers.

I sat down, and, not understanding English, passed my time in gazing
at the goers and comers. I had been there some time when my
attention was attracted by the voice of a man speaking as follows in
French:

"Tommy has committed suicide, and he was wise, for he was in such a
state that he could only expect unhappiness for the rest of his
life."

"You are quite mistaken," said the other, with the greatest
composure. "I was one of his creditors myself, and on making an
inventory of his effects I feel satisfied that he has done a very
foolish and a very childish thing; he might have lived on
comfortably, and not killed himself for fully six months."

At any other time this calculation would have made me laugh, and, as
it was, I felt as if the incident had done me good.

I left the coffee-house without having said a word or spent a penny,
and I went towards the Exchange to get some money. Bosanquet gave me
what I wanted directly, and as I walked out with him I noticed a
curious-looking individual, whose name I asked.

"He's worth a hundred thousand," said the banker.

"And who is that other man over there?"

"He's not worth a ten-pound note."

"But I don't want to hear what they are worth; it's their names I
want."

"I really don't know."

"How can you tell how much they are worth, not knowing their names?"

"Names don't go for anything here. What we want to know about a man
is how much he has got? Besides; what's in a name? Ask me for a
thousand pounds and give me a proper receipt, and you can do it under
the name of Socrates or Attila, for all I care. You will pay me back
my money as Socrates or Attila, and not as Seingalt; that is all."

"But how about signing bills of exchange?"

"That's another thing; I must use the name which the drawer gives
me."

"I don't understand that."

"Well, you see, you are not English, nor are you a business man."

On leaving him I walked towards the park, but wishing to change a
twenty-pound note before going in I went to a fat merchant, an
epicure whose acquaintance I had made at the tavern, and put down the
note on his counter, begging him to cash it for me.

"Come again in an hour," said he, "I have no money by me just now."

"Very good; I will call again when I come from the park."

"Take back your note; you shall give it to me when I hand you the
money."

"Never mind; keep it. I don't doubt your honesty."

"Don't be so foolish. If you left me the note I should certainly
decline to hand over the money, if only for the sake of giving you a
lesson."

"I don't believe you are capable of such dishonesty."

"Nor am I, but when it comes to such a simple thing as putting a bank
note in your pocket, the most honest man in the world would never
dream of having such a thing in his possession without having paid
the money for it, and the least slip of memory might lead to a
dispute in which you would infallibly come off second best."

"I feel the force of your arguments, especially in a town where so
much business is carried on."

When I got into the park I met Martinelli and thanked him for sending
me a copy of the Decameron, while he congratulated me on my re-
appearance in society, and on the young lady of whom I had been the
happy possessor and no doubt the slave.

"My Lord Pembroke has seen her," said he, "and thought her charming."

"What? Where could he have seen her?"

"In a carriage with you driving fast along the Rochester road. It is
three or four days ago."

"Then I may tell you that I was taking her to Calais; I shall never
see her face again."

"Will you let the room again in the same way?"

"No, never again, though the god of love has been propitious to me.
I shall be glad to see you at my house whenever you like to come."

"Shall I send you a note to warn you?"

"Not at all."

We walked on talking about literature, manners, and so forth, in an
aimless way. All at once, as we approached Buckingham House, I saw
five or six persons, relieving nature amidst the bushes, with their
hinder parts facing the passers-by. I thought this a disgusting
piece of indecency, and said as much to Martinelli, adding that the
impudent rascals might at least turn their faces towards the path.

"Not at all," he exclaimed, "for then they might be recognized;
whereas in exposing their posteriors they run no such risk; besides
the sight makes squeamish persons turn away."

"You are right, but you will confess that the whole thing strikes a
stranger as very revolting."

"Yes, there is nothing so ineradicable as national prejudice. You
may have noticed that when an Englishman wants to ease his sluices in
the street, he doesn't run up an alley or turn to the wall like we
do."

"Yes, I have noticed them turning towards the middle of the street,
but if they thus escape the notice of the people in the shops and on
the pavement they are seen by everybody who is driving in a carriage,
and that is as bad."

"The people in the carriages need not look."

"That is true"

We walked on to the Green Park, and met Lord Pembroke on horseback.
He stopped and burst into exclamations on seeing me. As I guessed
the cause of his surprise, I hastened to tell him that I was a free
man once more, to my sorrow, and felt lonely amidst my splendour.

"I feel rather curious about it, and perhaps I may come and keep you
company to-day."

We parted, and reckoning on seeing him at dinner I, went back to tell
my cook that dinner was to be served in the large room. Martinelli
had an engagement and could not come to dinner, but he led me out of
the park by a door with which I was not acquainted, and sent me on my
way.

As we were going along we saw a crowd of people who seemed to be
staring at something. Martinelli went up to the crowd, and then
returned to me, saying,--

"That's a curious sight for you; you can enter it amidst your remarks
on English manners."

"What is it?"

"A man at the point of death from a blow he has received in boxing
with another sturdy fellow."

"Cannot anything be done?"

"There is a surgeon there who would bleed him, if he were allowed."

"Who could prevent him?"

"That's the curious part of it. Two men have betted on his death or
recovery. One says, 'I'll bet twenty guineas he dies,' and the other
says, 'Done.' Number one will not allow the surgeon to bleed him,
for if the man recovered his twenty guineas would be gone."

"Poor man! what pitiless betters!"

"The English are very strange in their betting proclivities; they bet
about everything. There is a Betting Club to which I will introduce
you, if you like."

"Do they speak French there?"

"Most certainly, for it is composed of men of wit and mark."

"What do they do?"

"They talk and argue, and if one man brings forward a proposition
which another denies, and one backs his opinion, the other has to bet
too, on pain of a fine which goes to the common fund."

"Introduce me to this delightful club, by all means; it will make my
fortune, for I shall always take care to be on the right side."

"You had better be careful; they are wary birds."

"But to return to the dying man; what will be done to his
antagonist?"

"His hand will be examined, and if it is found to be just the same as
yours or mine it will be marked, and he will be let go."

"I don't understand that, so kindly explain. How do they recognize a
dangerous hand?"

"If it is found to be marked already, it is a proof that he has
killed his man before and has been marked for it, with the warning,
'Take care not to kill anyone else, for if you do you will be
hanged.'"

"But supposing such a man is attacked?"

"He ought to shew his hand, and then his adversary would let him
alone."

"But if not?"

"Then he is defending himself; and if he kills his man he is
acquitted, provided he can bring witnesses to swear that he was
obliged to fight."

"Since fighting with the fist may cause death, I wonder it is
allowed."

"It is only allowed for a wager. If the combatants do not put one or
more pieces of money on the ground before the fight, and there is a
death, the man is hanged."

"What laws! What manners!"

In such ways I learnt much concerning the manner and customs of this
proud nation, at once so great and so little.

The noble lord came to dinner, and I treated him in a manner to make
him wish to come again. Although there were only the two of us, the
meal lasted a long time, as I was anxious for additional information
on what I had heard in the morning, especially on the Betting Club.
The worthy Pembroke advised me not to have anything to do with it,
unless I made up my mind to keep perfect silence for four or five
weeks.

"But supposing they ask me a question?"

"Evade it."

"Certainly, if I am not in a position to give my opinion; but if I
have an opinion, the powers of Satan could not shut my mouth."

"All the worse for you."

"Are the members knaves?"

"Certainly not. They are noblemen, philosophers, and epicures; but
they are pitiless where a bet is concerned."

"Is the club treasury rich?"

"Far from it; they are all ashamed to pay a fine, and prefer to bet.
Who will introduce you?"

"Martinelli."

"Quite so; through Lord Spencer, who is a member. I would not become
one."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't like argument."

"My taste runs the other way, so I shall try to get in."

"By the way, M. de Seingalt, do you know that you are a very
extraordinary man?"

"For what reason, my lord?"

"You shut yourself up for a whole month with a woman who spent
fourteen months in London without anybody making her acquaintance or
even discovering her nationality. All the amateurs have taken a
lively interest in the affair."

"How did you find out that she spent fourteen months in London?"

"Because several persons saw her in the house of a worthy widow where
she spent the first month. She would never have anything to say to
any advances, but the bill in your window worked wonders."

"Yes, and all the worse for me, for I feel as if I could never love
another woman."

"Oh, that's childish indeed! You will love another woman in a week-
nay, perhaps to-morrow, if you will come and dine with me at my
country house. A perfect French beauty has asked me to dine with
her. I have told some of my friends who are fond of gaming."

"Does the charming Frenchwoman like gaming?"

"No, but her husband does."

"What's his name?"

"He calls himself Count de Castelbajac."

"Ah! Castelbajac?"

"Yes."

"He is a Gascon?"

"Yes."

"Tall, thin, and dark, and marked with the smallpox?

"Exactly! I am delighted to find you know him. You will agree with
me that his wife is very pretty?"

"I really can't say. I knew Castelbajac, as he calls himself, six
years ago, and I never heard he was married. I shall be delighted to
join you, however. I must warn you not to say anything if he seems
not to know me; he may possibly have good reasons for acting in that
manner. Before long I will tell you a story which does not represent
him in a very advantageous manner. I did not know he played. I
shall take care to be on my guard at the Betting Club, and I advise
you, my lord, to be on your guard in the society of Castelbajac."

"I will not forget the warning."

When Pembroke had left me I went to see Madame Cornelis, who had
written a week before to tell me my daughter was ill, and explained
that she had been turned from my doors on two occasions though she
felt certain I was in. To this I replied that I was in love, and so
happy within my own house that I had excluded all strangers, and with
that she had to be contented, but the state in which I found little
Sophie frightened me. She was lying in bed with high fever, she had
grown much thinner, and her eyes seemed to say that she was dying of
grief. Her mother was in despair, for she was passionately fond of
the child, and I thought she would have torn my eyes out when I told
her that if Sophie died she would only have herself to reproach.
Sophie, who was very good-hearted, cried out, "No, no! papa dear;"
and quieted her mother by her caresses.

Nevertheless, I took the mother aside, and told her that the disease
was solely caused by Sophie's dread of her severity.

"In spite of your affection," said I, "you treat her with
insufferable tyranny. Send her to a boardingschool for a couple of
years, and let her associate with girls of good family. Tell her
this evening that she is to go to school, and see if she does not get
better."

"Yes," said she, "but a good boarding-school costs a hundred guineas
a year, including masters."

"If I approve of the school you select I will pay a year in advance."

On my making this offer the woman, who seemed to be living so
luxuriously, but was in reality poverty-stricken, embraced me with
the utmost gratitude.

"Come and tell the news to your daughter now," said she, "I should
like to watch her face when she hears it."

"Certainly."

"My dear Sophie," I said, "your mother agrees with me that if you had
a change of air you would get better, and if you would like to spend
a year or two in a good school I will pay the first year in advance."

"Of course, I will obey my dear mother," said Sophie.

"There is no question of obedience. Would you like to go to school?
Tell me truly."

"But would my mother like me to go?"

"Yes, my child, if it would please you."

"Then, mamma, I should like to go very much."

Her face flushed as she spoke, and I knew that my diagnosis had been
correct. I left her saying I should hope to hear from her soon.

At ten o'clock the next day Jarbe came to ask if I had forgotten my
engagement.

"No," said I, "but it is only ten o'clock."

"Yes, but we have twenty miles to go."

"Twenty miles?"

"Certainly, the house is at St. Albans."

"It's very strange Pembroke never told me; how did you find out the
address?"

"He left it when he went away:"

"Just like an Englishman."

I took a post-chaise, and in three hours I had reached my
destination. The English roads are excellent, and the country offers
a smiling prospect on every side. The vine is lacking, for though
the English soil is fertile it will not bear grapes.

Lord Pembroke's house was not a particularly large one, but twenty
masters and their servants could easily be accommodated in it.

The lady had not yet arrived, so my lord shewed me his gardens, his
fountains, and his magnificent hot-houses; also a cock chained by the
leg, and of a truly ferocious aspect.

"What have we here, my lord?"

"A cock."

"I see it is, but why do you chain it?"CHAPTER X

Eccentricity of the English--Castelbajac Count Schwerin--Sophie at
School--My Reception at the Betting Club--The Charpillon


I passed a night which seemed like a never-ending nightmare, and I
got up sad and savage, feeling as if I could kill a man on the
smallest provocation. It seemed as if the house, which I had
hitherto thought so beautiful, was like a millstone about my neck.
I went out in my travelling clothes, and walked into a coffee-house,
where I saw a score of people reading the papers.

I sat down, and, not understanding English, passed my time in gazing
at the goers and comers. I had been there some time when my
attention was attracted by the voice of a man speaking as follows in
French:

"Tommy has committed suicide, and he was wise, for he was in such a
state that he could only expect unhappiness for the rest of his
life."

"You are quite mistaken," said the other, with the greatest
composure. "I was one of his creditors myself, and on making an
inventory of his effects I feel satisfied that he has done a very
foolish and a very childish thing; he might have lived on
comfortably, and not killed himself for fully six months."

At any other time this calculation would have made me laugh, and, as
it was, I felt as if the incident had done me good.

I left the coffee-house without having said a word or spent a penny,
and I went towards the Exchange to get some money. Bosanquet gave me
what I wanted directly, and as I walked out with him I noticed a
curious-looking individual, whose name I asked.

"He's worth a hundred thousand," said the banker.

"And who is that other man over there?"

"He's not worth a ten-pound note."

"But I don't want to hear what they are worth; it's their names I
want."

"I really don't know."

"How can you tell how much they are worth, not knowing their names?"

"Names don't go for anything here. What we want to know about a man
is how much he has got? Besides; what's in a name? Ask me for a
thousand pounds and give me a proper receipt, and you can do it under
the name of Socrates or Attila, for all I care. You will pay me back
my money as Socrates or Attila, and not as Seingalt; that is all."

"But how about signing bills of exchange?"

"That's another thing; I must use the name which the drawer gives
me."

"I don't understand that."

"Well, you see, you are not English, nor are you a business man."

On leaving him I walked towards the park, but wishing to change a
twenty-pound note before going in I went to a fat merchant, an
epicure whose acquaintance I had made at the tavern, and put down the
note on his counter, begging him to cash it for me.

"Come again in an hour," said he, "I have no money by me just now."

"Very good; I will call again when I come from the park."

"Take back your note; you shall give it to me when I hand you the
money."

"Never mind; keep it. I don't doubt your honesty."

"Don't be so foolish. If you left me the note I should certainly
decline to hand over the money, if only for the sake of giving you a
lesson."

"I don't believe you are capable of such dishonesty."

"Nor am I, but when it comes to such a simple thing as putting a bank
note in your pocket, the most honest man in the world would never
dream of having such a thing in his possession without having paid
the money for it, and the least slip of memory might lead to a
dispute in which you would infallibly come off second best."

"I feel the force of your arguments, especially in a town where so
much business is carried on."

When I got into the park I met Martinelli and thanked him for sending
me a copy of the Decameron, while he congratulated me on my re-
appearance in society, and on the young lady of whom I had been the
happy possessor and no doubt the slave.

"My Lord Pembroke has seen her," said he, "and thought her charming."

"What? Where could he have seen her?"

"In a carriage with you driving fast along the Rochester road. It is
three or four days ago."

"Then I may tell you that I was taking her to Calais; I shall never
see her face again."

"Will you let the room again in the same way?"

"No, never again, though the god of love has been propitious to me.
I shall be glad to see you at my house whenever you like to come."

"Shall I send you a note to warn you?"

"Not at all."

We walked on talking about literature, manners, and so forth, in an
aimless way. All at once, as we approached Buckingham House, I saw
five or six persons, relieving nature amidst the bushes, with their
hinder parts facing the passers-by. I thought this a disgusting
piece of indecency, and said as much to Martinelli, adding that the
impudent rascals might at least turn their faces towards the path.

"Not at all," he exclaimed, "for then they might be recognized;
whereas in exposing their posteriors they run no such risk; besides
the sight makes squeamish persons turn away."

"You are right, but you will confess that the whole thing strikes a
stranger as very revolting."

"Yes, there is nothing so ineradicable as national prejudice. You
may have noticed that when an Englishman wants to ease his sluices in
the street, he doesn't run up an alley or turn to the wall like we
do."

"Yes, I have noticed them turning towards the middle of the street,
but if they thus escape the notice of the people in the shops and on
the pavement they are seen by everybody who is driving in a carriage,
and that is as bad."

"The people in the carriages need not look."

"That is true"

We walked on to the Green Park, and met Lord Pembroke on horseback.
He stopped and burst into exclamations on seeing me. As I guessed
the cause of his surprise, I hastened to tell him that I was a free
man once more, to my sorrow, and felt lonely amidst my splendour.

"I feel rather curious about it, and perhaps I may come and keep you
company to-day."

We parted, and reckoning on seeing him at dinner I, went back to tell
my cook that dinner was to be served in the large room. Martinelli
had an engagement and could not come to dinner, but he led me out of
the park by a door with which I was not acquainted, and sent me on my
way.

As we were going along we saw a crowd of people who seemed to be
staring at something. Martinelli went up to the crowd, and then
returned to me, saying,--

"That's a curious sight for you; you can enter it amidst your remarks
on English manners."

"What is it?"

"A man at the point of death from a blow he has received in boxing
with another sturdy fellow."

"Cannot anything be done?"

"There is a surgeon there who would bleed him, if he were allowed."

"Who could prevent him?"

"That's the curious part of it. Two men have betted on his death or
recovery. One says, 'I'll bet twenty guineas he dies,' and the other
says, 'Done.' Number one will not allow the surgeon to bleed him,
for if the man recovered his twenty guineas would be gone."

"Poor man! what pitiless betters!"

"The English are very strange in their betting proclivities; they bet
about everything. There is a Betting Club to which I will introduce
you, if you like."

"Do they speak French there?"

"Most certainly, for it is composed of men of wit and mark."

"What do they do?"

"They talk and argue, and if one man brings forward a proposition
which another denies, and one backs his opinion, the other has to bet
too, on pain of a fine which goes to the common fund."

"Introduce me to this delightful club, by all means; it will make my
fortune, for I shall always take care to be on the right side."

"You had better be careful; they are wary birds."

"But to return to the dying man; what will be done to his
antagonist?"

"His hand will be examined, and if it is found to be just the same as
yours or mine it will be marked, and he will be let go."

"I don't understand that, so kindly explain. How do they recognize a
dangerous hand?"

"If it is found to be marked already, it is a proof that he has
killed his man before and has been marked for it, with the warning,
'Take care not to kill anyone else, for if you do you will be
hanged.'"

"But supposing such a man is attacked?"

"He ought to shew his hand, and then his adversary would let him
alone."

"But if not?"

"Then he is defending himself; and if he kills his man he is
acquitted, provided he can bring witnesses to swear that he was
obliged to fight."

"Since fighting with the fist may cause death, I wonder it is
allowed."

"It is only allowed for a wager. If the combatants do not put one or
more pieces of money on the ground before the fight, and there is a
death, the man is hanged."

"What laws! What manners!"

In such ways I learnt much concerning the manner and customs of this
proud nation, at once so great and so little.

The noble lord came to dinner, and I treated him in a manner to make
him wish to come again. Although there were only the two of us, the
meal lasted a long time, as I was anxious for additional information
on what I had heard in the morning, especially on the Betting Club.
The worthy Pembroke advised me not to have anything to do with it,
unless I made up my mind to keep perfect silence for four or five
weeks.

"But supposing they ask me a question?"

"Evade it."

"Certainly, if I am not in a position to give my opinion; but if I
have an opinion, the powers of Satan could not shut my mouth."

"All the worse for you."

"Are the members knaves?"

"Certainly not. They are noblemen, philosophers, and epicures; but
they are pitiless where a bet is concerned."

"Is the club treasury rich?"

"Far from it; they are all ashamed to pay a fine, and prefer to bet.
Who will introduce you?"

"Martinelli."

"Quite so; through Lord Spencer, who is a member. I would not become
one."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't like argument."

"My taste runs the other way, so I shall try to get in."

"By the way, M. de Seingalt, do you know that you are a very
extraordinary man?"

"For what reason, my lord?"

"You shut yourself up for a whole month with a woman who spent
fourteen months in London without anybody making her acquaintance or
even discovering her nationality. All the amateurs have taken a
lively interest in the affair."

"How did you find out that she spent fourteen months in London?"

"Because several persons saw her in the house of a worthy widow where
she spent the first month. She would never have anything to say to
any advances, but the bill in your window worked wonders."

"Yes, and all the worse for me, for I feel as if I could never love
another woman."

"Oh, that's childish indeed! You will love another woman in a week-
nay, perhaps to-morrow, if you will come and dine with me at my
country house. A perfect French beauty has asked me to dine with
her. I have told some of my friends who are fond of gaming."

"Does the charming Frenchwoman like gaming?"

"No, but her husband does."

"What's his name?"

"He calls himself Count de Castelbajac."

"Ah! Castelbajac?"

"Yes."

"He is a Gascon?"

"Yes."

"Tall, thin, and dark, and marked with the smallpox?

"Exactly! I am delighted to find you know him. You will agree with
me that his wife is very pretty?"

"I really can't say. I knew Castelbajac, as he calls himself, six
years ago, and I never heard he was married. I shall be delighted to
join you, however. I must warn you not to say anything if he seems
not to know me; he may possibly have good reasons for acting in that
manner. Before long I will tell you a story which does not represent
him in a very advantageous manner. I did not know he played. I
shall take care to be on my guard at the Betting Club, and I advise
you, my lord, to be on your guard in the society of Castelbajac."

"I will not forget the warning."

When Pembroke had left me I went to see Madame Cornelis, who had
written a week before to tell me my daughter was ill, and explained
that she had been turned from my doors on two occasions though she
felt certain I was in. To this I replied that I was in love, and so
happy within my own house that I had excluded all strangers, and with
that she had to be contented, but the state in which I found little
Sophie frightened me. She was lying in bed with high fever, she had
grown much thinner, and her eyes seemed to say that she was dying of
grief. Her mother was in despair, for she was passionately fond of
the child, and I thought she would have torn my eyes out when I told
her that if Sophie died she would only have herself to reproach.
Sophie, who was very good-hearted, cried out, "No, no! papa dear;"
and quieted her mother by her caresses.

Nevertheless, I took the mother aside, and told her that the disease
was solely caused by Sophie's dread of her severity.

"In spite of your affection," said I, "you treat her with
insufferable tyranny. Send her to a boardingschool for a couple of
years, and let her associate with girls of good family. Tell her
this evening that she is to go to school, and see if she does not get
better."

"Yes," said she, "but a good boarding-school costs a hundred guineas
a year, including masters."

"If I approve of the school you select I will pay a year in advance."

On my making this offer the woman, who seemed to be living so
luxuriously, but was in reality poverty-stricken, embraced me with
the utmost gratitude.

"Come and tell the news to your daughter now," said she, "I should
like to watch her face when she hears it."

"Certainly."

"My dear Sophie," I said, "your mother agrees with me that if you had
a change of air you would get better, and if you would like to spend
a year or two in a good school I will pay the first year in advance."

"Of course, I will obey my dear mother," said Sophie.

"There is no question of obedience. Would you like to go to school?
Tell me truly."

"But would my mother like me to go?"

"Yes, my child, if it would please you."

"Then, mamma, I should like to go very much."

Her face flushed as she spoke, and I knew that my diagnosis had been
correct. I left her saying I should hope to hear from her soon.

At ten o'clock the next day Jarbe came to ask if I had forgotten my
engagement.

"No," said I, "but it is only ten o'clock."

"Yes, but we have twenty miles to go."

"Twenty miles?"

"Certainly, the house is at St. Albans."

"It's very strange Pembroke never told me; how did you find out the
address?"

"He left it when he went away:"

"Just like an Englishman."

I took a post-chaise, and in three hours I had reached my
destination. The English roads are excellent, and the country offers
a smiling prospect on every side. The vine is lacking, for though
the English soil is fertile it will not bear grapes.

Lord Pembroke's house was not a particularly large one, but twenty
masters and their servants could easily be accommodated in it.

The lady had not yet arrived, so my lord shewed me his gardens, his
fountains, and his magnificent hot-houses; also a cock chained by the
leg, and of a truly ferocious aspect.

"What have we here, my lord?"

"A cock."

"I see it is, but why do you chain it?"CHAPTER X

Eccentricity of the English--Castelbajac Count Schwerin--Sophie at
School--My Reception at the Betting Club--The Charpillon


I passed a night which seemed like a never-ending nightmare, and I
got up sad and savage, feeling as if I could kill a man on the
smallest provocation. It seemed as if the house, which I had
hitherto thought so beautiful, was like a millstone about my neck.
I went out in my travelling clothes, and walked into a coffee-house,
where I saw a score of people reading the papers.

I sat down, and, not understanding English, passed my time in gazing
at the goers and comers. I had been there some time when my
attention was attracted by the voice of a man speaking as follows in
French:

"Tommy has committed suicide, and he was wise, for he was in such a
state that he could only expect unhappiness for the rest of his
life."

"You are quite mistaken," said the other, with the greatest
composure. "I was one of his creditors myself, and on making an
inventory of his effects I feel satisfied that he has done a very
foolish and a very childish thing; he might have lived on
comfortably, and not killed himself for fully six months."

At any other time this calculation would have made me laugh, and, as
it was, I felt as if the incident had done me good.

I left the coffee-house without having said a word or spent a penny,
and I went towards the Exchange to get some money. Bosanquet gave me
what I wanted directly, and as I walked out with him I noticed a
curious-looking individual, whose name I asked.

"He's worth a hundred thousand," said the banker.

"And who is that other man over there?"

"He's not worth a ten-pound note."

"But I don't want to hear what they are worth; it's their names I
want."

"I really don't know."

"How can you tell how much they are worth, not knowing their names?"

"Names don't go for anything here. What we want to know about a man
is how much he has got? Besides; what's in a name? Ask me for a
thousand pounds and give me a proper receipt, and you can do it under
the name of Socrates or Attila, for all I care. You will pay me back
my money as Socrates or Attila, and not as Seingalt; that is all."

"But how about signing bills of exchange?"

"That's another thing; I must use the name which the drawer gives
me."

"I don't understand that."

"Well, you see, you are not English, nor are you a business man."

On leaving him I walked towards the park, but wishing to change a
twenty-pound note before going in I went to a fat merchant, an
epicure whose acquaintance I had made at the tavern, and put down the
note on his counter, begging him to cash it for me.

"Come again in an hour," said he, "I have no money by me just now."

"Very good; I will call again when I come from the park."

"Take back your note; you shall give it to me when I hand you the
money."

"Never mind; keep it. I don't doubt your honesty."

"Don't be so foolish. If you left me the note I should certainly
decline to hand over the money, if only for the sake of giving you a
lesson."

"I don't believe you are capable of such dishonesty."

"Nor am I, but when it comes to such a simple thing as putting a bank
note in your pocket, the most honest man in the world would never
dream of having such a thing in his possession without having paid
the money for it, and the least slip of memory might lead to a
dispute in which you would infallibly come off second best."

"I feel the force of your arguments, especially in a town where so
much business is carried on."

When I got into the park I met Martinelli and thanked him for sending
me a copy of the Decameron, while he congratulated me on my re-
appearance in society, and on the young lady of whom I had been the
happy possessor and no doubt the slave.

"My Lord Pembroke has seen her," said he, "and thought her charming."

"What? Where could he have seen her?"

"In a carriage with you driving fast along the Rochester road. It is
three or four days ago."

"Then I may tell you that I was taking her to Calais; I shall never
see her face again."

"Will you let the room again in the same way?"

"No, never again, though the god of love has been propitious to me.
I shall be glad to see you at my house whenever you like to come."

"Shall I send you a note to warn you?"

"Not at all."

We walked on talking about literature, manners, and so forth, in an
aimless way. All at once, as we approached Buckingham House, I saw
five or six persons, relieving nature amidst the bushes, with their
hinder parts facing the passers-by. I thought this a disgusting
piece of indecency, and said as much to Martinelli, adding that the
impudent rascals might at least turn their faces towards the path.

"Not at all," he exclaimed, "for then they might be recognized;
whereas in exposing their posteriors they run no such risk; besides
the sight makes squeamish persons turn away."

"You are right, but you will confess that the whole thing strikes a
stranger as very revolting."

"Yes, there is nothing so ineradicable as national prejudice. You
may have noticed that when an Englishman wants to ease his sluices in
the street, he doesn't run up an alley or turn to the wall like we
do."

"Yes, I have noticed them turning towards the middle of the street,
but if they thus escape the notice of the people in the shops and on
the pavement they are seen by everybody who is driving in a carriage,
and that is as bad."

"The people in the carriages need not look."

"That is true"

We walked on to the Green Park, and met Lord Pembroke on horseback.
He stopped and burst into exclamations on seeing me. As I guessed
the cause of his surprise, I hastened to tell him that I was a free
man once more, to my sorrow, and felt lonely amidst my splendour.

"I feel rather curious about it, and perhaps I may come and keep you
company to-day."

We parted, and reckoning on seeing him at dinner I, went back to tell
my cook that dinner was to be served in the large room. Martinelli
had an engagement and could not come to dinner, but he led me out of
the park by a door with which I was not acquainted, and sent me on my
way.

As we were going along we saw a crowd of people who seemed to be
staring at something. Martinelli went up to the crowd, and then
returned to me, saying,--

"That's a curious sight for you; you can enter it amidst your remarks
on English manners."

"What is it?"

"A man at the point of death from a blow he has received in boxing
with another sturdy fellow."

"Cannot anything be done?"

"There is a surgeon there who would bleed him, if he were allowed."

"Who could prevent him?"

"That's the curious part of it. Two men have betted on his death or
recovery. One says, 'I'll bet twenty guineas he dies,' and the other
says, 'Done.' Number one will not allow the surgeon to bleed him,
for if the man recovered his twenty guineas would be gone."

"Poor man! what pitiless betters!"

"The English are very strange in their betting proclivities; they bet
about everything. There is a Betting Club to which I will introduce
you, if you like."

"Do they speak French there?"

"Most certainly, for it is composed of men of wit and mark."

"What do they do?"

"They talk and argue, and if one man brings forward a proposition
which another denies, and one backs his opinion, the other has to bet
too, on pain of a fine which goes to the common fund."

"Introduce me to this delightful club, by all means; it will make my
fortune, for I shall always take care to be on the right side."

"You had better be careful; they are wary birds."

"But to return to the dying man; what will be done to his
antagonist?"

"His hand will be examined, and if it is found to be just the same as
yours or mine it will be marked, and he will be let go."

"I don't understand that, so kindly explain. How do they recognize a
dangerous hand?"

"If it is found to be marked already, it is a proof that he has
killed his man before and has been marked for it, with the warning,
'Take care not to kill anyone else, for if you do you will be
hanged.'"

"But supposing such a man is attacked?"

"He ought to shew his hand, and then his adversary would let him
alone."

"But if not?"

"Then he is defending himself; and if he kills his man he is
acquitted, provided he can bring witnesses to swear that he was
obliged to fight."

"Since fighting with the fist may cause death, I wonder it is
allowed."

"It is only allowed for a wager. If the combatants do not put one or
more pieces of money on the ground before the fight, and there is a
death, the man is hanged."

"What laws! What manners!"

In such ways I learnt much concerning the manner and customs of this
proud nation, at once so great and so little.

The noble lord came to dinner, and I treated him in a manner to make
him wish to come again. Although there were only the two of us, the
meal lasted a long time, as I was anxious for additional information
on what I had heard in the morning, especially on the Betting Club.
The worthy Pembroke advised me not to have anything to do with it,
unless I made up my mind to keep perfect silence for four or five
weeks.

"But supposing they ask me a question?"

"Evade it."

"Certainly, if I am not in a position to give my opinion; but if I
have an opinion, the powers of Satan could not shut my mouth."

"All the worse for you."

"Are the members knaves?"

"Certainly not. They are noblemen, philosophers, and epicures; but
they are pitiless where a bet is concerned."

"Is the club treasury rich?"

"Far from it; they are all ashamed to pay a fine, and prefer to bet.
Who will introduce you?"

"Martinelli."

"Quite so; through Lord Spencer, who is a member. I would not become
one."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't like argument."

"My taste runs the other way, so I shall try to get in."

"By the way, M. de Seingalt, do you know that you are a very
extraordinary man?"

"For what reason, my lord?"

"You shut yourself up for a whole month with a woman who spent
fourteen months in London without anybody making her acquaintance or
even discovering her nationality. All the amateurs have taken a
lively interest in the affair."

"How did you find out that she spent fourteen months in London?"

"Because several persons saw her in the house of a worthy widow where
she spent the first month. She would never have anything to say to
any advances, but the bill in your window worked wonders."

"Yes, and all the worse for me, for I feel as if I could never love
another woman."

"Oh, that's childish indeed! You will love another woman in a week-
nay, perhaps to-morrow, if you will come and dine with me at my
country house. A perfect French beauty has asked me to dine with
her. I have told some of my friends who are fond of gaming."

"Does the charming Frenchwoman like gaming?"

"No, but her husband does."

"What's his name?"

"He calls himself Count de Castelbajac."

"Ah! Castelbajac?"

"Yes."

"He is a Gascon?"

"Yes."

"Tall, thin, and dark, and marked with the smallpox?

"Exactly! I am delighted to find you know him. You will agree with
me that his wife is very pretty?"

"I really can't say. I knew Castelbajac, as he calls himself, six
years ago, and I never heard he was married. I shall be delighted to
join you, however. I must warn you not to say anything if he seems
not to know me; he may possibly have good reasons for acting in that
manner. Before long I will tell you a story which does not represent
him in a very advantageous manner. I did not know he played. I
shall take care to be on my guard at the Betting Club, and I advise
you, my lord, to be on your guard in the society of Castelbajac."

"I will not forget the warning."

When Pembroke had left me I went to see Madame Cornelis, who had
written a week before to tell me my daughter was ill, and explained
that she had been turned from my doors on two occasions though she
felt certain I was in. To this I replied that I was in love, and so
happy within my own house that I had excluded all strangers, and with
that she had to be contented, but the state in which I found little
Sophie frightened me. She was lying in bed with high fever, she had
grown much thinner, and her eyes seemed to say that she was dying of
grief. Her mother was in despair, for she was passionately fond of
the child, and I thought she would have torn my eyes out when I told
her that if Sophie died she would only have herself to reproach.
Sophie, who was very good-hearted, cried out, "No, no! papa dear;"
and quieted her mother by her caresses.

Nevertheless, I took the mother aside, and told her that the disease
was solely caused by Sophie's dread of her severity.

"In spite of your affection," said I, "you treat her with
insufferable tyranny. Send her to a boardingschool for a couple of
years, and let her associate with girls of good family. Tell her
this evening that she is to go to school, and see if she does not get
better."

"Yes," said she, "but a good boarding-school costs a hundred guineas
a year, including masters."

"If I approve of the school you select I will pay a year in advance."

On my making this offer the woman, who seemed to be living so
luxuriously, but was in reality poverty-stricken, embraced me with
the utmost gratitude.

"Come and tell the news to your daughter now," said she, "I should
like to watch her face when she hears it."

"Certainly."

"My dear Sophie," I said, "your mother agrees with me that if you had
a change of air you would get better, and if you would like to spend
a year or two in a good school I will pay the first year in advance."

"Of course, I will obey my dear mother," said Sophie.

"There is no question of obedience. Would you like to go to school?
Tell me truly."

"But would my mother like me to go?"

"Yes, my child, if it would please you."

"Then, mamma, I should like to go very much."

Her face flushed as she spoke, and I knew that my diagnosis had been
correct. I left her saying I should hope to hear from her soon.

At ten o'clock the next day Jarbe came to ask if I had forgotten my
engagement.

"No," said I, "but it is only ten o'clock."

"Yes, but we have twenty miles to go."

"Twenty miles?"

"Certainly, the house is at St. Albans."

"It's very strange Pembroke never told me; how did you find out the
address?"

"He left it when he went away:"

"Just like an Englishman."

I took a post-chaise, and in three hours I had reached my
destination. The English roads are excellent, and the country offers
a smiling prospect on every side. The vine is lacking, for though
the English soil is fertile it will not bear grapes.

Lord Pembroke's house was not a particularly large one, but twenty
masters and their servants could easily be accommodated in it.

The lady had not yet arrived, so my lord shewed me his gardens, his
fountains, and his magnificent hot-houses; also a cock chained by the
leg, and of a truly ferocious aspect.

"What have we here, my lord?"

"A cock."

"I see it is, but why do you chain it?"CHAPTER X

Eccentricity of the English--Castelbajac Count Schwerin--Sophie at
School--My Reception at the Betting Club--The Charpillon


I passed a night which seemed like a never-ending nightmare, and I
got up sad and savage, feeling as if I could kill a man on the
smallest provocation. It seemed as if the house, which I had
hitherto thought so beautiful, was like a millstone about my neck.
I went out in my travelling clothes, and walked into a coffee-house,
where I saw a score of people reading the papers.

I sat down, and, not understanding English, passed my time in gazing
at the goers and comers. I had been there some time when my
attention was attracted by the voice of a man speaking as follows in
French:

"Tommy has committed suicide, and he was wise, for he was in such a
state that he could only expect unhappiness for the rest of his
life."

"You are quite mistaken," said the other, with the greatest
composure. "I was one of his creditors myself, and on making an
inventory of his effects I feel satisfied that he has done a very
foolish and a very childish thing; he might have lived on
comfortably, and not killed himself for fully six months."

At any other time this calculation would have made me laugh, and, as
it was, I felt as if the incident had done me good.

I left the coffee-house without having said a word or spent a penny,
and I went towards the Exchange to get some money. Bosanquet gave me
what I wanted directly, and as I walked out with him I noticed a
curious-looking individual, whose name I asked.

"He's worth a hundred thousand," said the banker.

"And who is that other man over there?"

"He's not worth a ten-pound note."

"But I don't want to hear what they are worth; it's their names I
want."

"I really don't know."

"How can you tell how much they are worth, not knowing their names?"

"Names don't go for anything here. What we want to know about a man
is how much he has got? Besides; what's in a name? Ask me for a
thousand pounds and give me a proper receipt, and you can do it under
the name of Socrates or Attila, for all I care. You will pay me back
my money as Socrates or Attila, and not as Seingalt; that is all."

"But how about signing bills of exchange?"

"That's another thing; I must use the name which the drawer gives
me."

"I don't understand that."

"Well, you see, you are not English, nor are you a business man."

On leaving him I walked towards the park, but wishing to change a
twenty-pound note before going in I went to a fat merchant, an
epicure whose acquaintance I had made at the tavern, and put down the
note on his counter, begging him to cash it for me.

"Come again in an hour," said he, "I have no money by me just now."

"Very good; I will call again when I come from the park."

"Take back your note; you shall give it to me when I hand you the
money."

"Never mind; keep it. I don't doubt your honesty."

"Don't be so foolish. If you left me the note I should certainly
decline to hand over the money, if only for the sake of giving you a
lesson."

"I don't believe you are capable of such dishonesty."

"Nor am I, but when it comes to such a simple thing as putting a bank
note in your pocket, the most honest man in the world would never
dream of having such a thing in his possession without having paid
the money for it, and the least slip of memory might lead to a
dispute in which you would infallibly come off second best."

"I feel the force of your arguments, especially in a town where so
much business is carried on."

When I got into the park I met Martinelli and thanked him for sending
me a copy of the Decameron, while he congratulated me on my re-
appearance in society, and on the young lady of whom I had been the
happy possessor and no doubt the slave.

"My Lord Pembroke has seen her," said he, "and thought her charming."

"What? Where could he have seen her?"

"In a carriage with you driving fast along the Rochester road. It is
three or four days ago."

"Then I may tell you that I was taking her to Calais; I shall never
see her face again."

"Will you let the room again in the same way?"

"No, never again, though the god of love has been propitious to me.
I shall be glad to see you at my house whenever you like to come."

"Shall I send you a note to warn you?"

"Not at all."

We walked on talking about literature, manners, and so forth, in an
aimless way. All at once, as we approached Buckingham House, I saw
five or six persons, relieving nature amidst the bushes, with their
hinder parts facing the passers-by. I thought this a disgusting
piece of indecency, and said as much to Martinelli, adding that the
impudent rascals might at least turn their faces towards the path.

"Not at all," he exclaimed, "for then they might be recognized;
whereas in exposing their posteriors they run no such risk; besides
the sight makes squeamish persons turn away."

"You are right, but you will confess that the whole thing strikes a
stranger as very revolting."

"Yes, there is nothing so ineradicable as national prejudice. You
may have noticed that when an Englishman wants to ease his sluices in
the street, he doesn't run up an alley or turn to the wall like we
do."

"Yes, I have noticed them turning towards the middle of the street,
but if they thus escape the notice of the people in the shops and on
the pavement they are seen by everybody who is driving in a carriage,
and that is as bad."

"The people in the carriages need not look."

"That is true"

We walked on to the Green Park, and met Lord Pembroke on horseback.
He stopped and burst into exclamations on seeing me. As I guessed
the cause of his surprise, I hastened to tell him that I was a free
man once more, to my sorrow, and felt lonely amidst my splendour.

"I feel rather curious about it, and perhaps I may come and keep you
company to-day."

We parted, and reckoning on seeing him at dinner I, went back to tell
my cook that dinner was to be served in the large room. Martinelli
had an engagement and could not come to dinner, but he led me out of
the park by a door with which I was not acquainted, and sent me on my
way.

As we were going along we saw a crowd of people who seemed to be
staring at something. Martinelli went up to the crowd, and then
returned to me, saying,--

"That's a curious sight for you; you can enter it amidst your remarks
on English manners."

"What is it?"

"A man at the point of death from a blow he has received in boxing
with another sturdy fellow."

"Cannot anything be done?"

"There is a surgeon there who would bleed him, if he were allowed."

"Who could prevent him?"

"That's the curious part of it. Two men have betted on his death or
recovery. One says, 'I'll bet twenty guineas he dies,' and the other
says, 'Done.' Number one will not allow the surgeon to bleed him,
for if the man recovered his twenty guineas would be gone."

"Poor man! what pitiless betters!"

"The English are very strange in their betting proclivities; they bet
about everything. There is a Betting Club to which I will introduce
you, if you like."

"Do they speak French there?"

"Most certainly, for it is composed of men of wit and mark."

"What do they do?"

"They talk and argue, and if one man brings forward a proposition
which another denies, and one backs his opinion, the other has to bet
too, on pain of a fine which goes to the common fund."

"Introduce me to this delightful club, by all means; it will make my
fortune, for I shall always take care to be on the right side."

"You had better be careful; they are wary birds."

"But to return to the dying man; what will be done to his
antagonist?"

"His hand will be examined, and if it is found to be just the same as
yours or mine it will be marked, and he will be let go."

"I don't understand that, so kindly explain. How do they recognize a
dangerous hand?"

"If it is found to be marked already, it is a proof that he has
killed his man before and has been marked for it, with the warning,
'Take care not to kill anyone else, for if you do you will be
hanged.'"

"But supposing such a man is attacked?"

"He ought to shew his hand, and then his adversary would let him
alone."

"But if not?"

"Then he is defending himself; and if he kills his man he is
acquitted, provided he can bring witnesses to swear that he was
obliged to fight."

"Since fighting with the fist may cause death, I wonder it is
allowed."

"It is only allowed for a wager. If the combatants do not put one or
more pieces of money on the ground before the fight, and there is a
death, the man is hanged."

"What laws! What manners!"

In such ways I learnt much concerning the manner and customs of this
proud nation, at once so great and so little.

The noble lord came to dinner, and I treated him in a manner to make
him wish to come again. Although there were only the two of us, the
meal lasted a long time, as I was anxious for additional information
on what I had heard in the morning, especially on the Betting Club.
The worthy Pembroke advised me not to have anything to do with it,
unless I made up my mind to keep perfect silence for four or five
weeks.

"But supposing they ask me a question?"

"Evade it."

"Certainly, if I am not in a position to give my opinion; but if I
have an opinion, the powers of Satan could not shut my mouth."

"All the worse for you."

"Are the members knaves?"

"Certainly not. They are noblemen, philosophers, and epicures; but
they are pitiless where a bet is concerned."

"Is the club treasury rich?"

"Far from it; they are all ashamed to pay a fine, and prefer to bet.
Who will introduce you?"

"Martinelli."

"Quite so; through Lord Spencer, who is a member. I would not become
one."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't like argument."

"My taste runs the other way, so I shall try to get in."

"By the way, M. de Seingalt, do you know that you are a very
extraordinary man?"

"For what reason, my lord?"

"You shut yourself up for a whole month with a woman who spent
fourteen months in London without anybody making her acquaintance or
even discovering her nationality. All the amateurs have taken a
lively interest in the affair."

"How did you find out that she spent fourteen months in London?"

"Because several persons saw her in the house of a worthy widow where
she spent the first month. She would never have anything to say to
any advances, but the bill in your window worked wonders."

"Yes, and all the worse for me, for I feel as if I could never love
another woman."

"Oh, that's childish indeed! You will love another woman in a week-
nay, perhaps to-morrow, if you will come and dine with me at my
country house. A perfect French beauty has asked me to dine with
her. I have told some of my friends who are fond of gaming."

"Does the charming Frenchwoman like gaming?"

"No, but her husband does."

"What's his name?"

"He calls himself Count de Castelbajac."

"Ah! Castelbajac?"

"Yes."

"He is a Gascon?"

"Yes."

"Tall, thin, and dark, and marked with the smallpox?

"Exactly! I am delighted to find you know him. You will agree with
me that his wife is very pretty?"

"I really can't say. I knew Castelbajac, as he calls himself, six
years ago, and I never heard he was married. I shall be delighted to
join you, however. I must warn you not to say anything if he seems
not to know me; he may possibly have good reasons for acting in that
manner. Before long I will tell you a story which does not represent
him in a very advantageous manner. I did not know he played. I
shall take care to be on my guard at the Betting Club, and I advise
you, my lord, to be on your guard in the society of Castelbajac."

"I will not forget the warning."

When Pembroke had left me I went to see Madame Cornelis, who had
written a week before to tell me my daughter was ill, and explained
that she had been turned from my doors on two occasions though she
felt certain I was in. To this I replied that I was in love, and so
happy within my own house that I had excluded all strangers, and with
that she had to be contented, but the state in which I found little
Sophie frightened me. She was lying in bed with high fever, she had
grown much thinner, and her eyes seemed to say that she was dying of
grief. Her mother was in despair, for she was passionately fond of
the child, and I thought she would have torn my eyes out when I told
her that if Sophie died she would only have herself to reproach.
Sophie, who was very good-hearted, cried out, "No, no! papa dear;"
and quieted her mother by her caresses.

Nevertheless, I took the mother aside, and told her that the disease
was solely caused by Sophie's dread of her severity.

"In spite of your affection," said I, "you treat her with
insufferable tyranny. Send her to a boardingschool for a couple of
years, and let her associate with girls of good family. Tell her
this evening that she is to go to school, and see if she does not get
better."

"Yes," said she, "but a good boarding-school costs a hundred guineas
a year, including masters."

"If I approve of the school you select I will pay a year in advance."

On my making this offer the woman, who seemed to be living so
luxuriously, but was in reality poverty-stricken, embraced me with
the utmost gratitude.

"Come and tell the news to your daughter now," said she, "I should
like to watch her face when she hears it."

"Certainly."

"My dear Sophie," I said, "your mother agrees with me that if you had
a change of air you would get better, and if you would like to spend
a year or two in a good school I will pay the first year in advance."

"Of course, I will obey my dear mother," said Sophie.

"There is no question of obedience. Would you like to go to school?
Tell me truly."

"But would my mother like me to go?"

"Yes, my child, if it would please you."

"Then, mamma, I should like to go very much."

Her face flushed as she spoke, and I knew that my diagnosis had been
correct. I left her saying I should hope to hear from her soon.

At ten o'clock the next day Jarbe came to ask if I had forgotten my
engagement.

"No," said I, "but it is only ten o'clock."

"Yes, but we have twenty miles to go."

"Twenty miles?"

"Certainly, the house is at St. Albans."

"It's very strange Pembroke never told me; how did you find out the
address?"

"He left it when he went away:"

"Just like an Englishman."

I took a post-chaise, and in three hours I had reached my
destination. The English roads are excellent, and the country offers
a smiling prospect on every side. The vine is lacking, for though
the English soil is fertile it will not bear grapes.

Lord Pembroke's house was not a particularly large one, but twenty
masters and their servants could easily be accommodated in it.

The lady had not yet arrived, so my lord shewed me his gardens, his
fountains, and his magnificent hot-houses; also a cock chained by the
leg, and of a truly ferocious aspect.

"What have we here, my lord?"

"A cock."

"I see it is, but why do you chain it?"CHAPTER X

Eccentricity of the English--Castelbajac Count Schwerin--Sophie at
School--My Reception at the Betting Club--The Charpillon


I passed a night which seemed like a never-ending nightmare, and I
got up sad and savage, feeling as if I could kill a man on the
smallest provocation. It seemed as if the house, which I had
hitherto thought so beautiful, was like a millstone about my neck.
I went out in my travelling clothes, and walked into a coffee-house,
where I saw a score of people reading the papers.

I sat down, and, not understanding English, passed my time in gazing
at the goers and comers. I had been there some time when my
attention was attracted by the voice of a man speaking as follows in
French:

"Tommy has committed suicide, and he was wise, for he was in such a
state that he could only expect unhappiness for the rest of his
life."

"You are quite mistaken," said the other, with the greatest
composure. "I was one of his creditors myself, and on making an
inventory of his effects I feel satisfied that he has done a very
foolish and a very childish thing; he might have lived on
comfortably, and not killed himself for fully six months."

At any other time this calculation would have made me laugh, and, as
it was, I felt as if the incident had done me good.

I left the coffee-house without having said a word or spent a penny,
and I went towards the Exchange to get some money. Bosanquet gave me
what I wanted directly, and as I walked out with him I noticed a
curious-looking individual, whose name I asked.

"He's worth a hundred thousand," said the banker.

"And who is that other man over there?"

"He's not worth a ten-pound note."

"But I don't want to hear what they are worth; it's their names I
want."

"I really don't know."

"How can you tell how much they are worth, not knowing their names?"

"Names don't go for anything here. What we want to know about a man
is how much he has got? Besides; what's in a name? Ask me for a
thousand pounds and give me a proper receipt, and you can do it under
the name of Socrates or Attila, for all I care. You will pay me back
my money as Socrates or Attila, and not as Seingalt; that is all."

"But how about signing bills of exchange?"

"That's another thing; I must use the name which the drawer gives
me."

"I don't understand that."

"Well, you see, you are not English, nor are you a business man."

On leaving him I walked towards the park, but wishing to change a
twenty-pound note before going in I went to a fat merchant, an
epicure whose acquaintance I had made at the tavern, and put down the
note on his counter, begging him to cash it for me.

"Come again in an hour," said he, "I have no money by me just now."

"Very good; I will call again when I come from the park."

"Take back your note; you shall give it to me when I hand you the
money."

"Never mind; keep it. I don't doubt your honesty."

"Don't be so foolish. If you left me the note I should certainly
decline to hand over the money, if only for the sake of giving you a
lesson."

"I don't believe you are capable of such dishonesty."

"Nor am I, but when it comes to such a simple thing as putting a bank
note in your pocket, the most honest man in the world would never
dream of having such a thing in his possession without having paid
the money for it, and the least slip of memory might lead to a
dispute in which you would infallibly come off second best."

"I feel the force of your arguments, especially in a town where so
much business is carried on."

When I got into the park I met Martinelli and thanked him for sending
me a copy of the Decameron, while he congratulated me on my re-
appearance in society, and on the young lady of whom I had been the
happy possessor and no doubt the slave.

"My Lord Pembroke has seen her," said he, "and thought her charming."

"What? Where could he have seen her?"

"In a carriage with you driving fast along the Rochester road. It is
three or four days ago."

"Then I may tell you that I was taking her to Calais; I shall never
see her face again."

"Will you let the room again in the same way?"

"No, never again, though the god of love has been propitious to me.
I shall be glad to see you at my house whenever you like to come."

"Shall I send you a note to warn you?"

"Not at all."

We walked on talking about literature, manners, and so forth, in an
aimless way. All at once, as we approached Buckingham House, I saw
five or six persons, relieving nature amidst the bushes, with their
hinder parts facing the passers-by. I thought this a disgusting
piece of indecency, and said as much to Martinelli, adding that the
impudent rascals might at least turn their faces towards the path.

"Not at all," he exclaimed, "for then they might be recognized;
whereas in exposing their posteriors they run no such risk; besides
the sight makes squeamish persons turn away."

"You are right, but you will confess that the whole thing strikes a
stranger as very revolting."

"Yes, there is nothing so ineradicable as national prejudice. You
may have noticed that when an Englishman wants to ease his sluices in
the street, he doesn't run up an alley or turn to the wall like we
do."

"Yes, I have noticed them turning towards the middle of the street,
but if they thus escape the notice of the people in the shops and on
the pavement they are seen by everybody who is driving in a carriage,
and that is as bad."

"The people in the carriages need not look."

"That is true"

We walked on to the Green Park, and met Lord Pembroke on horseback.
He stopped and burst into exclamations on seeing me. As I guessed
the cause of his surprise, I hastened to tell him that I was a free
man once more, to my sorrow, and felt lonely amidst my splendour.

"I feel rather curious about it, and perhaps I may come and keep you
company to-day."

We parted, and reckoning on seeing him at dinner I, went back to tell
my cook that dinner was to be served in the large room. Martinelli
had an engagement and could not come to dinner, but he led me out of
the park by a door with which I was not acquainted, and sent me on my
way.

As we were going along we saw a crowd of people who seemed to be
staring at something. Martinelli went up to the crowd, and then
returned to me, saying,--

"That's a curious sight for you; you can enter it amidst your remarks
on English manners."

"What is it?"

"A man at the point of death from a blow he has received in boxing
with another sturdy fellow."

"Cannot anything be done?"

"There is a surgeon there who would bleed him, if he were allowed."

"Who could prevent him?"

"That's the curious part of it. Two men have betted on his death or
recovery. One says, 'I'll bet twenty guineas he dies,' and the other
says, 'Done.' Number one will not allow the surgeon to bleed him,
for if the man recovered his twenty guineas would be gone."

"Poor man! what pitiless betters!"

"The English are very strange in their betting proclivities; they bet
about everything. There is a Betting Club to which I will introduce
you, if you like."

"Do they speak French there?"

"Most certainly, for it is composed of men of wit and mark."

"What do they do?"

"They talk and argue, and if one man brings forward a proposition
which another denies, and one backs his opinion, the other has to bet
too, on pain of a fine which goes to the common fund."

"Introduce me to this delightful club, by all means; it will make my
fortune, for I shall always take care to be on the right side."

"You had better be careful; they are wary birds."

"But to return to the dying man; what will be done to his
antagonist?"

"His hand will be examined, and if it is found to be just the same as
yours or mine it will be marked, and he will be let go."

"I don't understand that, so kindly explain. How do they recognize a
dangerous hand?"

"If it is found to be marked already, it is a proof that he has
killed his man before and has been marked for it, with the warning,
'Take care not to kill anyone else, for if you do you will be
hanged.'"

"But supposing such a man is attacked?"

"He ought to shew his hand, and then his adversary would let him
alone."

"But if not?"

"Then he is defending himself; and if he kills his man he is
acquitted, provided he can bring witnesses to swear that he was
obliged to fight."

"Since fighting with the fist may cause death, I wonder it is
allowed."

"It is only allowed for a wager. If the combatants do not put one or
more pieces of money on the ground before the fight, and there is a
death, the man is hanged."

"What laws! What manners!"

In such ways I learnt much concerning the manner and customs of this
proud nation, at once so great and so little.

The noble lord came to dinner, and I treated him in a manner to make
him wish to come again. Although there were only the two of us, the
meal lasted a long time, as I was anxious for additional information
on what I had heard in the morning, especially on the Betting Club.
The worthy Pembroke advised me not to have anything to do with it,
unless I made up my mind to keep perfect silence for four or five
weeks.

"But supposing they ask me a question?"

"Evade it."

"Certainly, if I am not in a position to give my opinion; but if I
have an opinion, the powers of Satan could not shut my mouth."

"All the worse for you."

"Are the members knaves?"

"Certainly not. They are noblemen, philosophers, and epicures; but
they are pitiless where a bet is concerned."

"Is the club treasury rich?"

"Far from it; they are all ashamed to pay a fine, and prefer to bet.
Who will introduce you?"

"Martinelli."

"Quite so; through Lord Spencer, who is a member. I would not become
one."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't like argument."

"My taste runs the other way, so I shall try to get in."

"By the way, M. de Seingalt, do you know that you are a very
extraordinary man?"

"For what reason, my lord?"

"You shut yourself up for a whole month with a woman who spent
fourteen months in London without anybody making her acquaintance or
even discovering her nationality. All the amateurs have taken a
lively interest in the affair."

"How did you find out that she spent fourteen months in London?"

"Because several persons saw her in the house of a worthy widow where
she spent the first month. She would never have anything to say to
any advances, but the bill in your window worked wonders."

"Yes, and all the worse for me, for I feel as if I could never love
another woman."

"Oh, that's childish indeed! You will love another woman in a week-
nay, perhaps to-morrow, if you will come and dine with me at my
country house. A perfect French beauty has asked me to dine with
her. I have told some of my friends who are fond of gaming."

"Does the charming Frenchwoman like gaming?"

"No, but her husband does."

"What's his name?"

"He calls himself Count de Castelbajac."

"Ah! Castelbajac?"

"Yes."

"He is a Gascon?"

"Yes."

"Tall, thin, and dark, and marked with the smallpox?

"Exactly! I am delighted to find you know him. You will agree with
me that his wife is very pretty?"

"I really can't say. I knew Castelbajac, as he calls himself, six
years ago, and I never heard he was married. I shall be delighted to
join you, however. I must warn you not to say anything if he seems
not to know me; he may possibly have good reasons for acting in that
manner. Before long I will tell you a story which does not represent
him in a very advantageous manner. I did not know he played. I
shall take care to be on my guard at the Betting Club, and I advise
you, my lord, to be on your guard in the society of Castelbajac."

"I will not forget the warning."

When Pembroke had left me I went to see Madame Cornelis, who had
written a week before to tell me my daughter was ill, and explained
that she had been turned from my doors on two occasions though she
felt certain I was in. To this I replied that I was in love, and so
happy within my own house that I had excluded all strangers, and with
that she had to be contented, but the state in which I found little
Sophie frightened me. She was lying in bed with high fever, she had
grown much thinner, and her eyes seemed to say that she was dying of
grief. Her mother was in despair, for she was passionately fond of
the child, and I thought she would have torn my eyes out when I told
her that if Sophie died she would only have herself to reproach.
Sophie, who was very good-hearted, cried out, "No, no! papa dear;"
and quieted her mother by her caresses.

Nevertheless, I took the mother aside, and told her that the disease
was solely caused by Sophie's dread of her severity.

"In spite of your affection," said I, "you treat her with
insufferable tyranny. Send her to a boardingschool for a couple of
years, and let her associate with girls of good family. Tell her
this evening that she is to go to school, and see if she does not get
better."

"Yes," said she, "but a good boarding-school costs a hundred guineas
a year, including masters."

"If I approve of the school you select I will pay a year in advance."

On my making this offer the woman, who seemed to be living so
luxuriously, but was in reality poverty-stricken, embraced me with
the utmost gratitude.

"Come and tell the news to your daughter now," said she, "I should
like to watch her face when she hears it."

"Certainly."

"My dear Sophie," I said, "your mother agrees with me that if you had
a change of air you would get better, and if you would like to spend
a year or two in a good school I will pay the first year in advance."

"Of course, I will obey my dear mother," said Sophie.

"There is no question of obedience. Would you like to go to school?
Tell me truly."

"But would my mother like me to go?"

"Yes, my child, if it would please you."

"Then, mamma, I should like to go very much."

Her face flushed as she spoke, and I knew that my diagnosis had been
correct. I left her saying I should hope to hear from her soon.

At ten o'clock the next day Jarbe came to ask if I had forgotten my
engagement.

"No," said I, "but it is only ten o'clock."

"Yes, but we have twenty miles to go."

"Twenty miles?"

"Certainly, the house is at St. Albans."

"It's very strange Pembroke never told me; how did you find out the
address?"

"He left it when he went away:"

"Just like an Englishman."

I took a post-chaise, and in three hours I had reached my
destination. The English roads are excellent, and the country offers
a smiling prospect on every side. The vine is lacking, for though
the English soil is fertile it will not bear grapes.

Lord Pembroke's house was not a particularly large one, but twenty
masters and their servants could easily be accommodated in it.

The lady had not yet arrived, so my lord shewed me his gardens, his
fountains, and his magnificent hot-houses; also a cock chained by the
leg, and of a truly ferocious aspect.

"What have we here, my lord?"

"A cock."

"I see it is, but why do you chain it?"CHAPTER X

Eccentricity of the English--Castelbajac Count Schwerin--Sophie at
School--My Reception at the Betting Club--The Charpillon


I passed a night which seemed like a never-ending nightmare, and I
got up sad and savage, feeling as if I could kill a man on the
smallest provocation. It seemed as if the house, which I had
hitherto thought so beautiful, was like a millstone about my neck.
I went out in my travelling clothes, and walked into a coffee-house,
where I saw a score of people reading the papers.

I sat down, and, not understanding English, passed my time in gazing
at the goers and comers. I had been there some time when my
attention was attracted by the voice of a man speaking as follows in
French:

"Tommy has committed suicide, and he was wise, for he was in such a
state that he could only expect unhappiness for the rest of his
life."

"You are quite mistaken," said the other, with the greatest
composure. "I was one of his creditors myself, and on making an
inventory of his effects I feel satisfied that he has done a very
foolish and a very childish thing; he might have lived on
comfortably, and not killed himself for fully six months."

At any other time this calculation would have made me laugh, and, as
it was, I felt as if the incident had done me good.

I left the coffee-house without having said a word or spent a penny,
and I went towards the Exchange to get some money. Bosanquet gave me
what I wanted directly, and as I walked out with him I noticed a
curious-looking individual, whose name I asked.

"He's worth a hundred thousand," said the banker.

"And who is that other man over there?"

"He's not worth a ten-pound note."

"But I don't want to hear what they are worth; it's their names I
want."

"I really don't know."

"How can you tell how much they are worth, not knowing their names?"

"Names don't go for anything here. What we want to know about a man
is how much he has got? Besides; what's in a name? Ask me for a
thousand pounds and give me a proper receipt, and you can do it under
the name of Socrates or Attila, for all I care. You will pay me back
my money as Socrates or Attila, and not as Seingalt; that is all."

"But how about signing bills of exchange?"

"That's another thing; I must use the name which the drawer gives
me."

"I don't understand that."

"Well, you see, you are not English, nor are you a business man."

On leaving him I walked towards the park, but wishing to change a
twenty-pound note before going in I went to a fat merchant, an
epicure whose acquaintance I had made at the tavern, and put down the
note on his counter, begging him to cash it for me.

"Come again in an hour," said he, "I have no money by me just now."

"Very good; I will call again when I come from the park."

"Take back your note; you shall give it to me when I hand you the
money."

"Never mind; keep it. I don't doubt your honesty."

"Don't be so foolish. If you left me the note I should certainly
decline to hand over the money, if only for the sake of giving you a
lesson."

"I don't believe you are capable of such dishonesty."

"Nor am I, but when it comes to such a simple thing as putting a bank
note in your pocket, the most honest man in the world would never
dream of having such a thing in his possession without having paid
the money for it, and the least slip of memory might lead to a
dispute in which you would infallibly come off second best."

"I feel the force of your arguments, especially in a town where so
much business is carried on."

When I got into the park I met Martinelli and thanked him for sending
me a copy of the Decameron, while he congratulated me on my re-
appearance in society, and on the young lady of whom I had been the
happy possessor and no doubt the slave.

"My Lord Pembroke has seen her," said he, "and thought her charming."

"What? Where could he have seen her?"

"In a carriage with you driving fast along the Rochester road. It is
three or four days ago."

"Then I may tell you that I was taking her to Calais; I shall never
see her face again."

"Will you let the room again in the same way?"

"No, never again, though the god of love has been propitious to me.
I shall be glad to see you at my house whenever you like to come."

"Shall I send you a note to warn you?"

"Not at all."

We walked on talking about literature, manners, and so forth, in an
aimless way. All at once, as we approached Buckingham House, I saw
five or six persons, relieving nature amidst the bushes, with their
hinder parts facing the passers-by. I thought this a disgusting
piece of indecency, and said as much to Martinelli, adding that the
impudent rascals might at least turn their faces towards the path.

"Not at all," he exclaimed, "for then they might be recognized;
whereas in exposing their posteriors they run no such risk; besides
the sight makes squeamish persons turn away."

"You are right, but you will confess that the whole thing strikes a
stranger as very revolting."

"Yes, there is nothing so ineradicable as national prejudice. You
may have noticed that when an Englishman wants to ease his sluices in
the street, he doesn't run up an alley or turn to the wall like we
do."

"Yes, I have noticed them turning towards the middle of the street,
but if they thus escape the notice of the people in the shops and on
the pavement they are seen by everybody who is driving in a carriage,
and that is as bad."

"The people in the carriages need not look."

"That is true"

We walked on to the Green Park, and met Lord Pembroke on horseback.
He stopped and burst into exclamations on seeing me. As I guessed
the cause of his surprise, I hastened to tell him that I was a free
man once more, to my sorrow, and felt lonely amidst my splendour.

"I feel rather curious about it, and perhaps I may come and keep you
company to-day."

We parted, and reckoning on seeing him at dinner I, went back to tell
my cook that dinner was to be served in the large room. Martinelli
had an engagement and could not come to dinner, but he led me out of
the park by a door with which I was not acquainted, and sent me on my
way.

As we were going along we saw a crowd of people who seemed to be
staring at something. Martinelli went up to the crowd, and then
returned to me, saying,--

"That's a curious sight for you; you can enter it amidst your remarks
on English manners."

"What is it?"

"A man at the point of death from a blow he has received in boxing
with another sturdy fellow."

"Cannot anything be done?"

"There is a surgeon there who would bleed him, if he were allowed."

"Who could prevent him?"

"That's the curious part of it. Two men have betted on his death or
recovery. One says, 'I'll bet twenty guineas he dies,' and the other
says, 'Done.' Number one will not allow the surgeon to bleed him,
for if the man recovered his twenty guineas would be gone."

"Poor man! what pitiless betters!"

"The English are very strange in their betting proclivities; they bet
about everything. There is a Betting Club to which I will introduce
you, if you like."

"Do they speak French there?"

"Most certainly, for it is composed of men of wit and mark."

"What do they do?"

"They talk and argue, and if one man brings forward a proposition
which another denies, and one backs his opinion, the other has to bet
too, on pain of a fine which goes to the common fund."

"Introduce me to this delightful club, by all means; it will make my
fortune, for I shall always take care to be on the right side."

"You had better be careful; they are wary birds."

"But to return to the dying man; what will be done to his
antagonist?"

"His hand will be examined, and if it is found to be just the same as
yours or mine it will be marked, and he will be let go."

"I don't understand that, so kindly explain. How do they recognize a
dangerous hand?"

"If it is found to be marked already, it is a proof that he has
killed his man before and has been marked for it, with the warning,
'Take care not to kill anyone else, for if you do you will be
hanged.'"

"But supposing such a man is attacked?"

"He ought to shew his hand, and then his adversary would let him
alone."

"But if not?"

"Then he is defending himself; and if he kills his man he is
acquitted, provided he can bring witnesses to swear that he was
obliged to fight."

"Since fighting with the fist may cause death, I wonder it is
allowed."

"It is only allowed for a wager. If the combatants do not put one or
more pieces of money on the ground before the fight, and there is a
death, the man is hanged."

"What laws! What manners!"

In such ways I learnt much concerning the manner and customs of this
proud nation, at once so great and so little.

The noble lord came to dinner, and I treated him in a manner to make
him wish to come again. Although there were only the two of us, the
meal lasted a long time, as I was anxious for additional information
on what I had heard in the morning, especially on the Betting Club.
The worthy Pembroke advised me not to have anything to do with it,
unless I made up my mind to keep perfect silence for four or five
weeks.

"But supposing they ask me a question?"

"Evade it."

"Certainly, if I am not in a position to give my opinion; but if I
have an opinion, the powers of Satan could not shut my mouth."

"All the worse for you."

"Are the members knaves?"

"Certainly not. They are noblemen, philosophers, and epicures; but
they are pitiless where a bet is concerned."

"Is the club treasury rich?"

"Far from it; they are all ashamed to pay a fine, and prefer to bet.
Who will introduce you?"

"Martinelli."

"Quite so; through Lord Spencer, who is a member. I would not become
one."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't like argument."

"My taste runs the other way, so I shall try to get in."

"By the way, M. de Seingalt, do you know that you are a very
extraordinary man?"

"For what reason, my lord?"

"You shut yourself up for a whole month with a woman who spent
fourteen months in London without anybody making her acquaintance or
even discovering her nationality. All the amateurs have taken a
lively interest in the affair."

"How did you find out that she spent fourteen months in London?"

"Because several persons saw her in the house of a worthy widow where
she spent the first month. She would never have anything to say to
any advances, but the bill in your window worked wonders."

"Yes, and all the worse for me, for I feel as if I could never love
another woman."

"Oh, that's childish indeed! You will love another woman in a week-
nay, perhaps to-morrow, if you will come and dine with me at my
country house. A perfect French beauty has asked me to dine with
her. I have told some of my friends who are fond of gaming."

"Does the charming Frenchwoman like gaming?"

"No, but her husband does."

"What's his name?"

"He calls himself Count de Castelbajac."

"Ah! Castelbajac?"

"Yes."

"He is a Gascon?"

"Yes."

"Tall, thin, and dark, and marked with the smallpox?

"Exactly! I am delighted to find you know him. You will agree with
me that his wife is very pretty?"

"I really can't say. I knew Castelbajac, as he calls himself, six
years ago, and I never heard he was married. I shall be delighted to
join you, however. I must warn you not to say anything if he seems
not to know me; he may possibly have good reasons for acting in that
manner. Before long I will tell you a story which does not represent
him in a very advantageous manner. I did not know he played. I
shall take care to be on my guard at the Betting Club, and I advise
you, my lord, to be on your guard in the society of Castelbajac."

"I will not forget the warning."

When Pembroke had left me I went to see Madame Cornelis, who had
written a week before to tell me my daughter was ill, and explained
that she had been turned from my doors on two occasions though she
felt certain I was in. To this I replied that I was in love, and so
happy within my own house that I had excluded all strangers, and with
that she had to be contented, but the state in which I found little
Sophie frightened me. She was lying in bed with high fever, she had
grown much thinner, and her eyes seemed to say that she was dying of
grief. Her mother was in despair, for she was passionately fond of
the child, and I thought she would have torn my eyes out when I told
her that if Sophie died she would only have herself to reproach.
Sophie, who was very good-hearted, cried out, "No, no! papa dear;"
and quieted her mother by her caresses.

Nevertheless, I took the mother aside, and told her that the disease
was solely caused by Sophie's dread of her severity.

"In spite of your affection," said I, "you treat her with
insufferable tyranny. Send her to a boardingschool for a couple of
years, and let her associate with girls of good family. Tell her
this evening that she is to go to school, and see if she does not get
better."

"Yes," said she, "but a good boarding-school costs a hundred guineas
a year, including masters."

"If I approve of the school you select I will pay a year in advance."

On my making this offer the woman, who seemed to be living so
luxuriously, but was in reality poverty-stricken, embraced me with
the utmost gratitude.

"Come and tell the news to your daughter now," said she, "I should
like to watch her face when she hears it."

"Certainly."

"My dear Sophie," I said, "your mother agrees with me that if you had
a change of air you would get better, and if you would like to spend
a year or two in a good school I will pay the first year in advance."

"Of course, I will obey my dear mother," said Sophie.

"There is no question of obedience. Would you like to go to school?
Tell me truly."

"But would my mother like me to go?"

"Yes, my child, if it would please you."

"Then, mamma, I should like to go very much."

Her face flushed as she spoke, and I knew that my diagnosis had been
correct. I left her saying I should hope to hear from her soon.

At ten o'clock the next day Jarbe came to ask if I had forgotten my
engagement.

"No," said I, "but it is only ten o'clock."

"Yes, but we have twenty miles to go."

"Twenty miles?"

"Certainly, the house is at St. Albans."

"It's very strange Pembroke never told me; how did you find out the
address?"

"He left it when he went away:"

"Just like an Englishman."

I took a post-chaise, and in three hours I had reached my
destination. The English roads are excellent, and the country offers
a smiling prospect on every side. The vine is lacking, for though
the English soil is fertile it will not bear grapes.

Lord Pembroke's house was not a particularly large one, but twenty
masters and their servants could easily be accommodated in it.

The lady had not yet arrived, so my lord shewed me his gardens, his
fountains, and his magnificent hot-houses; also a cock chained by the
leg, and of a truly ferocious aspect.

"What have we here, my lord?"

"A cock."

"I see it is, but why do you chain it?"CHAPTER X

Eccentricity of the English--Castelbajac Count Schwerin--Sophie at
School--My Reception at the Betting Club--The Charpillon


I passed a night which seemed like a never-ending nightmare, and I
got up sad and savage, feeling as if I could kill a man on the
smallest provocation. It seemed as if the house, which I had
hitherto thought so beautiful, was like a millstone about my neck.
I went out in my travelling clothes, and walked into a coffee-house,
where I saw a score of people reading the papers.

I sat down, and, not understanding English, passed my time in gazing
at the goers and comers. I had been there some time when my
attention was attracted by the voice of a man speaking as follows in
French:

"Tommy has committed suicide, and he was wise, for he was in such a
state that he could only expect unhappiness for the rest of his
life."

"You are quite mistaken," said the other, with the greatest
composure. "I was one of his creditors myself, and on making an
inventory of his effects I feel satisfied that he has done a very
foolish and a very childish thing; he might have lived on
comfortably, and not killed himself for fully six months."

At any other time this calculation would have made me laugh, and, as
it was, I felt as if the incident had done me good.

I left the coffee-house without having said a word or spent a penny,
and I went towards the Exchange to get some money. Bosanquet gave me
what I wanted directly, and as I walked out with him I noticed a
curious-looking individual, whose name I asked.

"He's worth a hundred thousand," said the banker.

"And who is that other man over there?"

"He's not worth a ten-pound note."

"But I don't want to hear what they are worth; it's their names I
want."

"I really don't know."

"How can you tell how much they are worth, not knowing their names?"

"Names don't go for anything here. What we want to know about a man
is how much he has got? Besides; what's in a name? Ask me for a
thousand pounds and give me a proper receipt, and you can do it under
the name of Socrates or Attila, for all I care. You will pay me back
my money as Socrates or Attila, and not as Seingalt; that is all."

"But how about signing bills of exchange?"

"That's another thing; I must use the name which the drawer gives
me."

"I don't understand that."

"Well, you see, you are not English, nor are you a business man."

On leaving him I walked towards the park, but wishing to change a
twenty-pound note before going in I went to a fat merchant, an
epicure whose acquaintance I had made at the tavern, and put down the
note on his counter, begging him to cash it for me.

"Come again in an hour," said he, "I have no money by me just now."

"Very good; I will call again when I come from the park."

"Take back your note; you shall give it to me when I hand you the
money."

"Never mind; keep it. I don't doubt your honesty."

"Don't be so foolish. If you left me the note I should certainly
decline to hand over the money, if only for the sake of giving you a
lesson."

"I don't believe you are capable of such dishonesty."

"Nor am I, but when it comes to such a simple thing as putting a bank
note in your pocket, the most honest man in the world would never
dream of having such a thing in his possession without having paid
the money for it, and the least slip of memory might lead to a
dispute in which you would infallibly come off second best."

"I feel the force of your arguments, especially in a town where so
much business is carried on."

When I got into the park I met Martinelli and thanked him for sending
me a copy of the Decameron, while he congratulated me on my re-
appearance in society, and on the young lady of whom I had been the
happy possessor and no doubt the slave.

"My Lord Pembroke has seen her," said he, "and thought her charming."

"What? Where could he have seen her?"

"In a carriage with you driving fast along the Rochester road. It is
three or four days ago."

"Then I may tell you that I was taking her to Calais; I shall never
see her face again."

"Will you let the room again in the same way?"

"No, never again, though the god of love has been propitious to me.
I shall be glad to see you at my house whenever you like to come."

"Shall I send you a note to warn you?"

"Not at all."

We walked on talking about literature, manners, and so forth, in an
aimless way. All at once, as we approached Buckingham House, I saw
five or six persons, relieving nature amidst the bushes, with their
hinder parts facing the passers-by. I thought this a disgusting
piece of indecency, and said as much to Martinelli, adding that the
impudent rascals might at least turn their faces towards the path.

"Not at all," he exclaimed, "for then they might be recognized;
whereas in exposing their posteriors they run no such risk; besides
the sight makes squeamish persons turn away."

"You are right, but you will confess that the whole thing strikes a
stranger as very revolting."

"Yes, there is nothing so ineradicable as national prejudice. You
may have noticed that when an Englishman wants to ease his sluices in
the street, he doesn't run up an alley or turn to the wall like we
do."

"Yes, I have noticed them turning towards the middle of the street,
but if they thus escape the notice of the people in the shops and on
the pavement they are seen by everybody who is driving in a carriage,
and that is as bad."

"The people in the carriages need not look."

"That is true"

We walked on to the Green Park, and met Lord Pembroke on horseback.
He stopped and burst into exclamations on seeing me. As I guessed
the cause of his surprise, I hastened to tell him that I was a free
man once more, to my sorrow, and felt lonely amidst my splendour.

"I feel rather curious about it, and perhaps I may come and keep you
company to-day."

We parted, and reckoning on seeing him at dinner I, went back to tell
my cook that dinner was to be served in the large room. Martinelli
had an engagement and could not come to dinner, but he led me out of
the park by a door with which I was not acquainted, and sent me on my
way.

As we were going along we saw a crowd of people who seemed to be
staring at something. Martinelli went up to the crowd, and then
returned to me, saying,--

"That's a curious sight for you; you can enter it amidst your remarks
on English manners."

"What is it?"

"A man at the point of death from a blow he has received in boxing
with another sturdy fellow."

"Cannot anything be done?"

"There is a surgeon there who would bleed him, if he were allowed."

"Who could prevent him?"

"That's the curious part of it. Two men have betted on his death or
recovery. One says, 'I'll bet twenty guineas he dies,' and the other
says, 'Done.' Number one will not allow the surgeon to bleed him,
for if the man recovered his twenty guineas would be gone."

"Poor man! what pitiless betters!"

"The English are very strange in their betting proclivities; they bet
about everything. There is a Betting Club to which I will introduce
you, if you like."

"Do they speak French there?"

"Most certainly, for it is composed of men of wit and mark."

"What do they do?"

"They talk and argue, and if one man brings forward a proposition
which another denies, and one backs his opinion, the other has to bet
too, on pain of a fine which goes to the common fund."

"Introduce me to this delightful club, by all means; it will make my
fortune, for I shall always take care to be on the right side."

"You had better be careful; they are wary birds."

"But to return to the dying man; what will be done to his
antagonist?"

"His hand will be examined, and if it is found to be just the same as
yours or mine it will be marked, and he will be let go."

"I don't understand that, so kindly explain. How do they recognize a
dangerous hand?"

"If it is found to be marked already, it is a proof that he has
killed his man before and has been marked for it, with the warning,
'Take care not to kill anyone else, for if you do you will be
hanged.'"

"But supposing such a man is attacked?"

"He ought to shew his hand, and then his adversary would let him
alone."

"But if not?"

"Then he is defending himself; and if he kills his man he is
acquitted, provided he can bring witnesses to swear that he was
obliged to fight."

"Since fighting with the fist may cause death, I wonder it is
allowed."

"It is only allowed for a wager. If the combatants do not put one or
more pieces of money on the ground before the fight, and there is a
death, the man is hanged."

"What laws! What manners!"

In such ways I learnt much concerning the manner and customs of this
proud nation, at once so great and so little.

The noble lord came to dinner, and I treated him in a manner to make
him wish to come again. Although there were only the two of us, the
meal lasted a long time, as I was anxious for additional information
on what I had heard in the morning, especially on the Betting Club.
The worthy Pembroke advised me not to have anything to do with it,
unless I made up my mind to keep perfect silence for four or five
weeks.

"But supposing they ask me a question?"

"Evade it."

"Certainly, if I am not in a position to give my opinion; but if I
have an opinion, the powers of Satan could not shut my mouth."

"All the worse for you."

"Are the members knaves?"

"Certainly not. They are noblemen, philosophers, and epicures; but
they are pitiless where a bet is concerned."

"Is the club treasury rich?"

"Far from it; they are all ashamed to pay a fine, and prefer to bet.
Who will introduce you?"

"Martinelli."

"Quite so; through Lord Spencer, who is a member. I would not become
one."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't like argument."

"My taste runs the other way, so I shall try to get in."

"By the way, M. de Seingalt, do you know that you are a very
extraordinary man?"

"For what reason, my lord?"

"You shut yourself up for a whole month with a woman who spent
fourteen months in London without anybody making her acquaintance or
even discovering her nationality. All the amateurs have taken a
lively interest in the affair."

"How did you find out that she spent fourteen months in London?"

"Because several persons saw her in the house of a worthy widow where
she spent the first month. She would never have anything to say to
any advances, but the bill in your window worked wonders."

"Yes, and all the worse for me, for I feel as if I could never love
another woman."

"Oh, that's childish indeed! You will love another woman in a week-
nay, perhaps to-morrow, if you will come and dine with me at my
country house. A perfect French beauty has asked me to dine with
her. I have told some of my friends who are fond of gaming."

"Does the charming Frenchwoman like gaming?"

"No, but her husband does."

"What's his name?"

"He calls himself Count de Castelbajac."

"Ah! Castelbajac?"

"Yes."

"He is a Gascon?"

"Yes."

"Tall, thin, and dark, and marked with the smallpox?

"Exactly! I am delighted to find you know him. You will agree with
me that his wife is very pretty?"

"I really can't say. I knew Castelbajac, as he calls himself, six
years ago, and I never heard he was married. I shall be delighted to
join you, however. I must warn you not to say anything if he seems
not to know me; he may possibly have good reasons for acting in that
manner. Before long I will tell you a story which does not represent
him in a very advantageous manner. I did not know he played. I
shall take care to be on my guard at the Betting Club, and I advise
you, my lord, to be on your guard in the society of Castelbajac."

"I will not forget the warning."

When Pembroke had left me I went to see Madame Cornelis, who had
written a week before to tell me my daughter was ill, and explained
that she had been turned from my doors on two occasions though she
felt certain I was in. To this I replied that I was in love, and so
happy within my own house that I had excluded all strangers, and with
that she had to be contented, but the state in which I found little
Sophie frightened me. She was lying in bed with high fever, she had
grown much thinner, and her eyes seemed to say that she was dying of
grief. Her mother was in despair, for she was passionately fond of
the child, and I thought she would have torn my eyes out when I told
her that if Sophie died she would only have herself to reproach.
Sophie, who was very good-hearted, cried out, "No, no! papa dear;"
and quieted her mother by her caresses.

Nevertheless, I took the mother aside, and told her that the disease
was solely caused by Sophie's dread of her severity.

"In spite of your affection," said I, "you treat her with
insufferable tyranny. Send her to a boardingschool for a couple of
years, and let her associate with girls of good family. Tell her
this evening that she is to go to school, and see if she does not get
better."

"Yes," said she, "but a good boarding-school costs a hundred guineas
a year, including masters."

"If I approve of the school you select I will pay a year in advance."

On my making this offer the woman, who seemed to be living so
luxuriously, but was in reality poverty-stricken, embraced me with
the utmost gratitude.

"Come and tell the news to your daughter now," said she, "I should
like to watch her face when she hears it."

"Certainly."

"My dear Sophie," I said, "your mother agrees with me that if you had
a change of air you would get better, and if you would like to spend
a year or two in a good school I will pay the first year in advance."

"Of course, I will obey my dear mother," said Sophie.

"There is no question of obedience. Would you like to go to school?
Tell me truly."

"But would my mother like me to go?"

"Yes, my child, if it would please you."

"Then, mamma, I should like to go very much."

Her face flushed as she spoke, and I knew that my diagnosis had been
correct. I left her saying I should hope to hear from her soon.

At ten o'clock the next day Jarbe came to ask if I had forgotten my
engagement.

"No," said I, "but it is only ten o'clock."

"Yes, but we have twenty miles to go."

"Twenty miles?"

"Certainly, the house is at St. Albans."

"It's very strange Pembroke never told me; how did you find out the
address?"

"He left it when he went away:"

"Just like an Englishman."

I took a post-chaise, and in three hours I had reached my
destination. The English roads are excellent, and the country offers
a smiling prospect on every side. The vine is lacking, for though
the English soil is fertile it will not bear grapes.

Lord Pembroke's house was not a particularly large one, but twenty
masters and their servants could easily be accommodated in it.

The lady had not yet arrived, so my lord shewed me his gardens, his
fountains, and his magnificent hot-houses; also a cock chained by the
leg, and of a truly ferocious aspect.

"What have we here, my lord?"

"A cock."

"I see it is, but why do you chain it?"CHAPTER X

Eccentricity of the English--Castelbajac Count Schwerin--Sophie at
School--My Reception at the Betting Club--The Charpillon


I passed a night which seemed like a never-ending nightmare, and I
got up sad and savage, feeling as if I could kill a man on the
smallest provocation. It seemed as if the house, which I had
hitherto thought so beautiful, was like a millstone about my neck.
I went out in my travelling clothes, and walked into a coffee-house,
where I saw a score of people reading the papers.

I sat down, and, not understanding English, passed my time in gazing
at the goers and comers. I had been there some time when my
attention was attracted by the voice of a man speaking as follows in
French:

"Tommy has committed suicide, and he was wise, for he was in such a
state that he could only expect unhappiness for the rest of his
life."

"You are quite mistaken," said the other, with the greatest
composure. "I was one of his creditors myself, and on making an
inventory of his effects I feel satisfied that he has done a very
foolish and a very childish thing; he might have lived on
comfortably, and not killed himself for fully six months."

At any other time this calculation would have made me laugh, and, as
it was, I felt as if the incident had done me good.

I left the coffee-house without having said a word or spent a penny,
and I went towards the Exchange to get some money. Bosanquet gave me
what I wanted directly, and as I walked out with him I noticed a
curious-looking individual, whose name I asked.

"He's worth a hundred thousand," said the banker.

"And who is that other man over there?"

"He's not worth a ten-pound note."

"But I don't want to hear what they are worth; it's their names I
want."

"I really don't know."

"How can you tell how much they are worth, not knowing their names?"

"Names don't go for anything here. What we want to know about a man
is how much he has got? Besides; what's in a name? Ask me for a
thousand pounds and give me a proper receipt, and you can do it under
the name of Socrates or Attila, for all I care. You will pay me back
my money as Socrates or Attila, and not as Seingalt; that is all."

"But how about signing bills of exchange?"

"That's another thing; I must use the name which the drawer gives
me."

"I don't understand that."

"Well, you see, you are not English, nor are you a business man."

On leaving him I walked towards the park, but wishing to change a
twenty-pound note before going in I went to a fat merchant, an
epicure whose acquaintance I had made at the tavern, and put down the
note on his counter, begging him to cash it for me.

"Come again in an hour," said he, "I have no money by me just now."

"Very good; I will call again when I come from the park."

"Take back your note; you shall give it to me when I hand you the
money."

"Never mind; keep it. I don't doubt your honesty."

"Don't be so foolish. If you left me the note I should certainly
decline to hand over the money, if only for the sake of giving you a
lesson."

"I don't believe you are capable of such dishonesty."

"Nor am I, but when it comes to such a simple thing as putting a bank
note in your pocket, the most honest man in the world would never
dream of having such a thing in his possession without having paid
the money for it, and the least slip of memory might lead to a
dispute in which you would infallibly come off second best."

"I feel the force of your arguments, especially in a town where so
much business is carried on."

When I got into the park I met Martinelli and thanked him for sending
me a copy of the Decameron, while he congratulated me on my re-
appearance in society, and on the young lady of whom I had been the
happy possessor and no doubt the slave.

"My Lord Pembroke has seen her," said he, "and thought her charming."

"What? Where could he have seen her?"

"In a carriage with you driving fast along the Rochester road. It is
three or four days ago."

"Then I may tell you that I was taking her to Calais; I shall never
see her face again."

"Will you let the room again in the same way?"

"No, never again, though the god of love has been propitious to me.
I shall be glad to see you at my house whenever you like to come."

"Shall I send you a note to warn you?"

"Not at all."

We walked on talking about literature, manners, and so forth, in an
aimless way. All at once, as we approached Buckingham House, I saw
five or six persons, relieving nature amidst the bushes, with their
hinder parts facing the passers-by. I thought this a disgusting
piece of indecency, and said as much to Martinelli, adding that the
impudent rascals might at least turn their faces towards the path.

"Not at all," he exclaimed, "for then they might be recognized;
whereas in exposing their posteriors they run no such risk; besides
the sight makes squeamish persons turn away."

"You are right, but you will confess that the whole thing strikes a
stranger as very revolting."

"Yes, there is nothing so ineradicable as national prejudice. You
may have noticed that when an Englishman wants to ease his sluices in
the street, he doesn't run up an alley or turn to the wall like we
do."

"Yes, I have noticed them turning towards the middle of the street,
but if they thus escape the notice of the people in the shops and on
the pavement they are seen by everybody who is driving in a carriage,
and that is as bad."

"The people in the carriages need not look."

"That is true"

We walked on to the Green Park, and met Lord Pembroke on horseback.
He stopped and burst into exclamations on seeing me. As I guessed
the cause of his surprise, I hastened to tell him that I was a free
man once more, to my sorrow, and felt lonely amidst my splendour.

"I feel rather curious about it, and perhaps I may come and keep you
company to-day."

We parted, and reckoning on seeing him at dinner I, went back to tell
my cook that dinner was to be served in the large room. Martinelli
had an engagement and could not come to dinner, but he led me out of
the park by a door with which I was not acquainted, and sent me on my
way.

As we were going along we saw a crowd of people who seemed to be
staring at something. Martinelli went up to the crowd, and then
returned to me, saying,--

"That's a curious sight for you; you can enter it amidst your remarks
on English manners."

"What is it?"

"A man at the point of death from a blow he has received in boxing
with another sturdy fellow."

"Cannot anything be done?"

"There is a surgeon there who would bleed him, if he were allowed."

"Who could prevent him?"

"That's the curious part of it. Two men have betted on his death or
recovery. One says, 'I'll bet twenty guineas he dies,' and the other
says, 'Done.' Number one will not allow the surgeon to bleed him,
for if the man recovered his twenty guineas would be gone."

"Poor man! what pitiless betters!"

"The English are very strange in their betting proclivities; they bet
about everything. There is a Betting Club to which I will introduce
you, if you like."

"Do they speak French there?"

"Most certainly, for it is composed of men of wit and mark."

"What do they do?"

"They talk and argue, and if one man brings forward a proposition
which another denies, and one backs his opinion, the other has to bet
too, on pain of a fine which goes to the common fund."

"Introduce me to this delightful club, by all means; it will make my
fortune, for I shall always take care to be on the right side."

"You had better be careful; they are wary birds."

"But to return to the dying man; what will be done to his
antagonist?"

"His hand will be examined, and if it is found to be just the same as
yours or mine it will be marked, and he will be let go."

"I don't understand that, so kindly explain. How do they recognize a
dangerous hand?"

"If it is found to be marked already, it is a proof that he has
killed his man before and has been marked for it, with the warning,
'Take care not to kill anyone else, for if you do you will be
hanged.'"

"But supposing such a man is attacked?"

"He ought to shew his hand, and then his adversary would let him
alone."

"But if not?"

"Then he is defending himself; and if he kills his man he is
acquitted, provided he can bring witnesses to swear that he was
obliged to fight."

"Since fighting with the fist may cause death, I wonder it is
allowed."

"It is only allowed for a wager. If the combatants do not put one or
more pieces of money on the ground before the fight, and there is a
death, the man is hanged."

"What laws! What manners!"

In such ways I learnt much concerning the manner and customs of this
proud nation, at once so great and so little.

The noble lord came to dinner, and I treated him in a manner to make
him wish to come again. Although there were only the two of us, the
meal lasted a long time, as I was anxious for additional information
on what I had heard in the morning, especially on the Betting Club.
The worthy Pembroke advised me not to have anything to do with it,
unless I made up my mind to keep perfect silence for four or five
weeks.

"But supposing they ask me a question?"

"Evade it."

"Certainly, if I am not in a position to give my opinion; but if I
have an opinion, the powers of Satan could not shut my mouth."

"All the worse for you."

"Are the members knaves?"

"Certainly not. They are noblemen, philosophers, and epicures; but
they are pitiless where a bet is concerned."

"Is the club treasury rich?"

"Far from it; they are all ashamed to pay a fine, and prefer to bet.
Who will introduce you?"

"Martinelli."

"Quite so; through Lord Spencer, who is a member. I would not become
one."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't like argument."

"My taste runs the other way, so I shall try to get in."

"By the way, M. de Seingalt, do you know that you are a very
extraordinary man?"

"For what reason, my lord?"

"You shut yourself up for a whole month with a woman who spent
fourteen months in London without anybody making her acquaintance or
even discovering her nationality. All the amateurs have taken a
lively interest in the affair."

"How did you find out that she spent fourteen months in London?"

"Because several persons saw her in the house of a worthy widow where
she spent the first month. She would never have anything to say to
any advances, but the bill in your window worked wonders."

"Yes, and all the worse for me, for I feel as if I could never love
another woman."

"Oh, that's childish indeed! You will love another woman in a week-
nay, perhaps to-morrow, if you will come and dine with me at my
country house. A perfect French beauty has asked me to dine with
her. I have told some of my friends who are fond of gaming."

"Does the charming Frenchwoman like gaming?"

"No, but her husband does."

"What's his name?"

"He calls himself Count de Castelbajac."

"Ah! Castelbajac?"

"Yes."

"He is a Gascon?"

"Yes."

"Tall, thin, and dark, and marked with the smallpox?

"Exactly! I am delighted to find you know him. You will agree with
me that his wife is very pretty?"

"I really can't say. I knew Castelbajac, as he calls himself, six
years ago, and I never heard he was married. I shall be delighted to
join you, however. I must warn you not to say anything if he seems
not to know me; he may possibly have good reasons for acting in that
manner. Before long I will tell you a story which does not represent
him in a very advantageous manner. I did not know he played. I
shall take care to be on my guard at the Betting Club, and I advise
you, my lord, to be on your guard in the society of Castelbajac."

"I will not forget the warning."

When Pembroke had left me I went to see Madame Cornelis, who had
written a week before to tell me my daughter was ill, and explained
that she had been turned from my doors on two occasions though she
felt certain I was in. To this I replied that I was in love, and so
happy within my own house that I had excluded all strangers, and with
that she had to be contented, but the state in which I found little
Sophie frightened me. She was lying in bed with high fever, she had
grown much thinner, and her eyes seemed to say that she was dying of
grief. Her mother was in despair, for she was passionately fond of
the child, and I thought she would have torn my eyes out when I told
her that if Sophie died she would only have herself to reproach.
Sophie, who was very good-hearted, cried out, "No, no! papa dear;"
and quieted her mother by her caresses.

Nevertheless, I took the mother aside, and told her that the disease
was solely caused by Sophie's dread of her severity.

"In spite of your affection," said I, "you treat her with
insufferable tyranny. Send her to a boardingschool for a couple of
years, and let her associate with girls of good family. Tell her
this evening that she is to go to school, and see if she does not get
better."

"Yes," said she, "but a good boarding-school costs a hundred guineas
a year, including masters."

"If I approve of the school you select I will pay a year in advance."

On my making this offer the woman, who seemed to be living so
luxuriously, but was in reality poverty-stricken, embraced me with
the utmost gratitude.

"Come and tell the news to your daughter now," said she, "I should
like to watch her face when she hears it."

"Certainly."

"My dear Sophie," I said, "your mother agrees with me that if you had
a change of air you would get better, and if you would like to spend
a year or two in a good school I will pay the first year in advance."

"Of course, I will obey my dear mother," said Sophie.

"There is no question of obedience. Would you like to go to school?
Tell me truly."

"But would my mother like me to go?"

"Yes, my child, if it would please you."

"Then, mamma, I should like to go very much."

Her face flushed as she spoke, and I knew that my diagnosis had been
correct. I left her saying I should hope to hear from her soon.

At ten o'clock the next day Jarbe came to ask if I had forgotten my
engagement.

"No," said I, "but it is only ten o'clock."

"Yes, but we have twenty miles to go."

"Twenty miles?"

"Certainly, the house is at St. Albans."

"It's very strange Pembroke never told me; how did you find out the
address?"

"He left it when he went away:"

"Just like an Englishman."

I took a post-chaise, and in three hours I had reached my
destination. The English roads are excellent, and the country offers
a smiling prospect on every side. The vine is lacking, for though
the English soil is fertile it will not bear grapes.

Lord Pembroke's house was not a particularly large one, but twenty
masters and their servants could easily be accommodated in it.

The lady had not yet arrived, so my lord shewed me his gardens, his
fountains, and his magnificent hot-houses; also a cock chained by the
leg, and of a truly ferocious aspect.

"What have we here, my lord?"

"A cock."

"I see it is, but why do you chain it?"
